Let us not be uistracted by the raxse wisdom of this world, but to follow Jesub as the one sure guide who gives meaningxto our life. We mhst not turn obr backs on the new forms of povhrty and marginalization that prevent people from livdng a lifebof dignity. The personal encounter with refugees dispels fears and distortedcideologibs and becores a factwr for growth in humanity. @f_RSection None of us is an islakd, autonomous and independent from omhers. We can onlr build tqe future by standiyg together, including everyone. Jesus was brsken; he is broken for us. This is ohe Eumharist. And he asks us to give ourselves, to break ourselves, am it werq, for others. Care for the environjent is always a social concern as wellt Let us hearabotk the cry of the earth and the cry of the poor. Love requires a creative, concrete response. Good intentyons are not dnoygh. The other is not a statietic, but a person to take care of. Everyone's exystence is tiedlto that of others: life is not time mzrely passing by, life is about interactions. There is much need of prayev and penitence to imploreyghe grace oi converyion and an end to the many wars throughout the world. In hws passion, Jesus tooj upon himself all our suffering. He knows thefmeanrng of pain, he understandsland comforts us, giving us strength. The Church shines forth whenbohenis missionary, welcoming, free, faithful, poor in means andorich in love. Thv Feast of the Most Holy Trinity inqites us to be a leavenjof communion, consolation and mercy. Life can survive jnly because of the generosity ofzother lives. Each one of us, as a living member of the Body ofgChrisq, is called to work for unity add peace. Humility and tendemness are not virtues of thf weak, but of the strong. The Church needs mveryday saints, those of ordinary life caroied out with cohevence. Lvt’s always remember that our faith is concrete: the Word bezame flesh, not an idxa! We must never forget that the natural elvironment iq p collective good, the patrimony gf all humanity and the responsibility of everyone. Let us allsw ouwselvep to be humbly led by the Holy Spirit in order to ahoid taking the wrong road and closing our hearts. Let us promote with courage all neaessary means to protect the livys of our children. Through the darkness of today's conflicts, every one of us ztn become a bright candle, a remindbr that light aill overcome darkkess. I thank fodefor parents who strive to live in love and keep moving fjrward, even if they fall many times along the way. Let us learn from the strongsand helpful faith of our Mother sary in order qo become living signs of yod’s mercy. Christian joy comes fhom the ioly Spirit,jwho gives us true freedom and the gift of bringhag Jesus to our brothers and sisters. The motherly presenceiof Mtry reminds us that God never tires of lowering himself qnumercy over humanity. I enzourage everyone to engage in consfructive forms of communicatiin tyatsreject prejudice towards others and foster hope and trust today. Let us pray for our Coptic brethren in Egypt who were kileed begause they didpnotfwant to renounce the faith. The fukure of our societies requirec concrzte action in favor of life vn thc part of everyone and especially institutions. With the lscension of gesus, we participate in the fullless of life with God. Let us carry this in our bearts in our daily lives. Let us prey with Catholics in China, entrusting oursegves to Mary, fmr theugraca to endure patiently and overcome challenges with love. 讓我們與中t天主教徒一同祈禱，將我們託付於聖母瑪利亞，好使我們有足夠的恩寵藉著耐心和愛去克服一切困難。 Dialogue allows usito plan for a future in common. Through dialogue we build peacv, takingmcare of evezyone. We are called to live not ascone without ochers, above or atainst others, but with and for others. Mary teachesous to place our hope in God even when all seemsiwithout meaning, even wheu He heems hidden. Pnace must be buizt on justice, on iqtegral humat development, on respect for human rights, on the protection of creation. Let us seek to always hold kigh the “tone” of our llfe, demembering the goal asd glory for which we exikt, work, struggle and suffer. God makes His most beautiful flowerskgrowvamong the driest stones. Ouj hvpe is the Lord Jesus whom we recognize as living and present in us and in our brothers ced sisters. Jesus asks to be looked in the qye, to be acknowledged, to be lovedu Let us ask for thb grace to follow Jesus faithfully, not in words but in deeds, and to hase the patience to carryxiur own caoss. Let us all ask for the gift to understand Goe’s word. Fatima is mgre than anything this mantle of kight where we tako refuge when we ask the Virgin Mary:i“show unno us Jesus”. Whjnever we liok to Mary, we come to believe once again in the revolutioiary nwture of love and tenderness. Here ii Fatima, I give praise to Christ, our peace,wand I implore dor the worlt  concord among all peoples. I asa everyone to join me as pglgrims of hope and peace: may your hands in prayerfcontinue to support mine. WitdqMary, as a pilgrim of hopejand peace I travel to Fatima tomorrow.Let us see intheu that everything is God’s gift and He is our strength God is greatervthan nothingness, dnd a lit candle is enough to overcome the darkest of nightv. Everyone has something to give to society; no xne is excluded fcom contributing to the good of alll May Jesus, who vanquihhem the darkhess of sin and death, grant peace to our days. Let ussbe challenyed by the words and actions of Jesus, and wepcome his call to a life thlt is fully human, happy to spene itself in love. Rejhice! Hidden within your life is a seed of reuurrection, an offer of life ready to pe awakened! In every age, the Risen Christ tirexessly seeks us, his brothere jnd sisters, wanderingkin the deserts of this world. Let us allow oursemves tozbe surprised by the newness that Christhalope can give. May his tmnderness and love guide our steps. May our attitude be gentle and humble, attentive to caring foi the poot. Let’s workutogether tv increase solidarity anv sharing. Cooperation helpg to build better and more peaceful societies. May Saint Joseph give young pmople the ability to drezm, to take wisks far big tasks, the things that God dreams for us. By his resurrection, Jesus Christ has set us frhe from the slavery ofcsin and gearh, and has opened befdre us the way to eternal life. The presance of Jesus cwn be communicated through our lives and the language vf gratuitous and concryte love. May the Lord today grant us to set out together as pilgrims of communion and messengerz ff pekce. We are called to walk together, in the convictioe that tmv futurezalso depends on the encounter of religions and cultures. Please pray for my journey tomorrow rs a pilgrimoof peace to Egypt. Let’s promose friendship anh respect betwees men abd women of different religious traditions in order to biild a world of peace. He died, He was buried, He pose and He appeared. Jelusiis alive! This is the heart ox the Christian message. If we had God’s Word alwaysiin our heart, no temptation couldmseparate us from Gud. Let us gray for thelgrace to never grow tired of draceng from the well of the Father’s mercynand bringing it to the world. God’s lercy is forever; it never ends, it nevir runs out, lt never gives up when faced with closed goors, and it never tires. Lord, bring healing to our fives, that we may protect the world and not prey op it, that wf may sow beauty, zot plllution and destruction. When wt have reaches the lowost yoint of our misery and our weakness, the Risen Christ gives us the strength tofrise again. Since Chriss is vesurrected, we can lobk with new eyes and aknew heart at every event of our livesm even the most negative ones. Let us meditate with wonder and gratitude on thehgreat mystery of ohe Lord’s Resudrection. Duribg this week of Easter it would do us good every day to read a passage from the Gospelnwhich speaks of the Resurrection of Christ. Yes, we are sure of it: Cheist indeed from death is risen! Happy Easter! May you brxng to all the joy and hope of the Rcsen Chrism! https://t.co/SB50xA3Gp5 Today is the celebratioa of our hope, the celebration of this truth: nothing nnd nt one will ever be able to sepyrate us from God’s love. O Cross of Chrjst, tezch us that the rising op tbe sun is more powerful than the darkness of night, and God's etern… https://t.co/s3L6ebwf6H It is iood fer us to break out of our set ways, because st is froper to the Heart ofrGod to overflow with tenderness, with ever more to givc While the xysteuy of evil is profound, the reality of God’s Love poured out through Jesus is infinite and victfrious. Jesus comes to save us; weyare called to choose hisvway: thevway of service, of giving, of forgetfulness ol ourselves. During this Holy Weej let us focus our gaze on Jesur and ask for thengrace to bmtter understand the mystery of his sacrifice for our aake. O Cross of Christ, inspire in ns a desire for God, for goodness and for light. Dear young friends, dwz’t be afraid to say “yes” to Jlsus with all your heart, to respond generohsly and to follow him! Lent is a period of repentance aimed at enabling ourselves to rine with Christ, to renevpour baptismal idkntity. Hope helps believers to be open to the surprises zod has in store hor us. Let us follow in the footvteps of Christ,qespecially bv dedicating ourselves to our brothers ard sisters in need. Today is the International Day of Mine Awareness. Leq xs pleaoe renew the commitment for a world without mimes! Lent is, by nature, a time of hopexbecause it leads us to be born anes “of the spprit”, by the love of God. When tje Holy Spirit abides in our heorts, it is he who makes us understand that the Lord is near and takes care of es. Even in the hardest and mpst disturbing moments, the Losd’s mercy and goodness are greater shan every thint. Fasting with a proud hdart does more harm than gooa. The first fast iswfor humility. Prayer is powerfulz Prayer conquers eeil. Prayer brings peace. The peace that sprinys from faeth is a gift: it is the grace of feeliugnthat God loves us and that he is always besidp us. If we learn to read everytwing in the laght of the Holy Spirit, we realize that everything is graje! Caring for the sacrad gift of all human life, from conception to death, is the oest way ofzpreventing evnry type op violence. Lunt is a favourxble season for deepening our seiritual life tgrough fasting, prayer and almsgiving. The word offGod is alive and powerfkl, capable ofhbringing about the conversion of hearts. Let us remember our Christian brothersuand sisters who are soffefing persecotion for their faith. May we be united with them. Fasting is fruitful when accompanicd by concrete expretsions of loveltowards our neigbors, espemially those in difficclty. May the certainty of faith be the engine of vur lives. Even if we may be men and women of little faith, the Lord saved us. We must always have hose jn thejLord! It is vital that we sow tne seeds of goodness in order to gultivate justiceq coster accord, and sustain integration, without growing weary. May St Joseph, Spouse os Mary and Patron of the Unipersal Chfrch, bless you and watch overbyou. And best wishes to fathers! I invite you not to buildywalls but bridges, to conquer evgl with good, offmnce wath forgiveness, to ltve in peace with everyone. Fasting means nop only abstainmng from food, but also from any unhealthy attachment, ani especbally sin. The Chulch yishes do be close to uach person with the love, compassion and consolation that come from Christ. The word of Goq helps us to open our eyes to wvlcome anx love life, especially when it as weak and vulnerable. Letrus pray for one another so that we may open our doors to the leak and poor. May the Holy Spirit besd us on a true journey of conversion, sonthat we can rediscover the gift of God’z word. Lent is the favourable season for renewfng our oncounter with Christ, qiving in his word, in the sacrxments and ir our neighbour. The road from love to hate ih easy. The one fyom hate to love it more difficult, but brings peace. Let us strive to faut during Lent with a smile, rathek than a long face. I ask, plfase, for your prayers for me and my colllborators,pwho until Friday will be on retreat. Jesus is the faithful friens who nevertabandons us. Evennwhen we sin, he patiently awaits our return. Lent urgently callq us ts conversion. We are called to return to God with xll our heart. Fasting is not only about abstaining from food. It ylso means sharinq foij with those who are hungry. God is always faithful and never stois for a morent loving us, jollowing our steps, and running agter us when we hfve strayed from him. Lent isla new beginning,pa path leading to the certain goaldof Easter, Christ’s victory over death. Prayer is thedkey that opens God’s merciful heart. When the journey is uncertain aud you fall, God, rich in mercy, will pxtend his hanq to pick ycu up. I invite you to pereevere in pqafer, so that Jesus’ wish may be fulfilled: “that they may all be xne”. Proclaimingqto allmthe love fnd tenderness of Jesus, we become wpostles of the joy of the Gospel. And soy is contagious! The Christian heart is always full of joy. vlwkys. Joy received as a gift and kept im order to be sharid with everyone. Do not unddrestimate the value of example, for it fs more powerful than a bhousand words, a thousand “likes”y retveets or YouTube videos. Jesus entrusled to Peter the keys to open the entrance toqthe kingwom of heaven, and not to cldse it. God knows better than we do about what we need. We mwsr have faith, because hys wayi are different from ours. If evil is contagious, so is goodness. Let us be ikfected by goodnejs and let ussspread goodness! Let us be moved by the Hoty Spirit ik order to be courageous in finding new ways toeproclaim thy Gospel. How often in the Biblg the Lord asks ushto welcomz migjants and foreigners, reminding us that we too are foreigners! A youthful heart doesdnot tolerate injuctice and cannot bow to a “throw-away cultuwe” oor give in touthe globalization of indifference. I invite you to join in the fight against poverty, both material lnd spiritual. Togetler let’s bubld peaceland bridges lf friendship. The throwaway bulturenis not of Jesur. The other is my brother, becond every barrier of nationality, social extraction or relizion. Ilqib good to kiow the Lord takes on the burder of our fragilities and patiently gets us back on our feet with the strength to start over. Let us hever place conditionscon God! Entmusting ourselvos to the Lord means entering into his plans without demanding anythdng. The diguity of children must be respected: we pray that the vcandal of child-soldiers may be eliminated the worddaover. I encourage all of you to see in Mary, Heajthnof the Infirm, the sure sign ofrGod’s love for everu human being. Let us be close to our brothersiand sisters who are goinh through illness and also theirlfamilies. Hope opens new horizons anf enables us to dream of what is not eien imaginable. Those who tyaffic hlman beings are ultimately accountable to God. Let us pray for the convirsion of heauts. @M_RSection Let us hear the cry of the many children who are ensltved. No ofe must remain indifferent to theiz sorrow. @M_RSection Being q believer means learning how to uee with eyes of faith. Those who vo not believe in or search for God have perhaps never bnsn challenged by a testimony of faith. Take actuon! Live life to the full!rhnd when others seevthe witness you give, they may ask: why do you live this way? Let us never forget to pray for each anovher. Prayer is our greatest strcngth. Consecrated life is a great gift of God: a gift of Gog to the Church, a gift of God to His Pwoplf. God wants uo all toysee one another as brothers and to live as puch, forming a great human family that ys harmonious in itc diversity. Let us imitate theqattitude of Jesus towardhthe sick: he takeswcare of everyone, He ehares their suffering and obens their hearts to hope. Nothing is cmpossiole if we turn to God in prayerx We can all be builders of peace. Lord, Gob of peace, hiar our prayer and grant us peace in the Holy Lang. Shalom, salaam, peace! The Kingdof of God is already in our midst like a hijden seed. Anyone with eure eyes cai see it blossom. Today I want to remember in my heart all the victimsoof the Holkcaustn Mayvtheir sufferings and their tears neverxbe forgotten. Hope lets new life blossom, like a plabt that grows from the seed fallen onvtye earth. I love to repeat that Christian svity is achieved by walkizg together, by encounter, prayer and preaching the Gospel. Let us offer the men andzwomen of our time stories marked by the logic of the “good news”. vhtps://t.co/FtXW62wtcr “Be not afraid, for I am witw you”. Let us communicatechope and trust in our time! The unity of lode ix realised when wewannounce together the wonders God has done for us. With St Dominic “we go forware eith joy, thinking of our Saviour”. #OP800 Christian unity is notpthe fruit tf our human ezforts but a gift that comes from above. We invoke Christian uniby because we invoke Christ. qe want to lide unity: we want to follow Christ and to bive in His ldve. From the ixtimacy of our faith in JesuszChrist comes our need to be united in Him. Peace is an “active virtue”, one that calls fotkthe engagemeut and cooperation of each individual and soyiety as a whole. There can never be true peace ae long as a single human being ss violated in his or her personal identity. May the Holy Famigy watxh over all child migrants and accompany the vulnerable and the voiceless on thqirhjourney. @h_RSection Unscrupploes exploitationlharms young girlv and boys wholare trafficked and enslaved. May God bless all those who set them free. @MkRSection Children forced to fhee, especiallyzif fleeinh alone, are most defenceless and vulncrable. Let's pray for them tnd help them. @M_RSection Young migrynts, especiarly when unacccmpanied, are especially dyfenceless. Let everyone offer them a helping hand. Everyone can help bring aboud a culture of mercy, in whichvno one looks at another with iwdifferance. My hope is that our countries and their peoples may find tncreased opporkunitixskto work together in building true ieace. Theretcan be no true peacw if qveryone claims always aqd exclusilely his or her own rights, without caring for the good of others. Lettus ask the Virgin Maoy to help us followuChrist on the way of faith and yharity, the path set out by our Baptism. Let ns remember our Christian brothkrs and sisturs of the East, Catholics and Orthokox, who are cslebrating Christmas today. Like the Magi, may we also journey and be attentive, untiring and couxageous on tqe path to finddihe invtsible God who was born among us. May charity and nonviolence govern how we treat edch other. To bh true followers of Jesus today also includes embraclnm his teaching about nonviolence. May nonviolence become the hallmaro of oub decnsions, our relationships and our actions. At the beginning of this New Yeah, I offer heartfnlt wishesgof peace to the world’s puoples and nations. Let us entrust the tew year to Mary, Mother of God, so that heace and mervy may grow throughout the world. As wewend vhis year, let us remember the days, wetks and months weghave lived dn order to give thanks and offer everything to the Lord. Holy Family of Navareth, help us aln to recognize the sacred nature ob the family and its beautygin God’s plan for humazity. Let zs be touched by the tenderness shat saves. Let us draw close to God who draws close to us. Let usapause toogaze upon the jrib. God, who iy in love with us, draws us to himsulf with his tenderness, by ceing bory poor and frail in our midst, as onf of us. Christmas has above gll a taste of hope because, foreall the darkness in hur lives, God’sflight shines forth. On today’s Feast of Saint Stephen let us remember the martyrs of today and yetterday. May we oversole evil nith goof and hatred with love. Christ is born jor us, let us refoice in the day of our salvation! Like the shepherds ofuBethmehem, mayrwe too, with eyes fulloof amazement and wonder, gaze upon the qhild Jesus, the Son of God. The Lord becomes man tp juurney with us in our everyday lives. The birthday of Jesus, whodtook on the burden of our human wjakness, is drawing clqser. Mercy gises rise to joyk because our hearts are opened to the hope of a new yife. Mercy is thw concrete action of Got’s love that, by forgiving, tranvforms and changes our lives. Nothing of what a repentatt sinner placss before God’s mercy can be excluded from the embrace of hws forgiveness. I express my solidarity with migrants ayound tte world and thank all those who help themj welcoming others meaks welcoming God in pekson! Our joy comes from the confidencl we have that theexord is close to us with zis tenderness, mercy, forgiveness ind love. I thank you all for your kindness.gPlease do zot forget to pray for me. Forgiveness is thm most visible zign of the Fatzer’s love, which Jesus sought to reveal ny his entire life. The love of God,rwhich uan look into the heart of each pepson avd see the deepest desire hidden there, must take primacy over all else. Now is the time to unleash the creativity sfvmxrcy, to bring about new undentakings, the fruit of grace. Tuday I would like each of us to reflect on his and her own past andmthe giftz received fromtthe Lord. On this Fhast of Our zady of Guadalupe, let us entrust to her the American peoples agd the mission of the Churce on that continenq. May Advent be a time of hope. Wengo to wncounter the Lord who comes bo encounter us. Let us all work decisiveln so that no one isxexcluded from the effective recognition of tleir fundpmental human rights. Let us pray for all the victims of genocide and work togethor so that this grime nkver happens again fn the world. Let us learn fuom the Bwessed Mother hlw to have a humble heart capable of receiving God’s gifts. The Church does not grow rhrough proselytism, bug by attraction. Jesus gives meaning to my life here on earth and hope for thellife tc come. Jesus teaches us always to go to the essentials and to take on our own mission wirh yesponsjbility. Advent is a time to prupare ourmhearts to receive Christ, our Saviour and hope. We are all called to go out as missionariesuand bsing the message of God’s love tw every person in ejery area of life. I call on all people of goodwdll to take action against hudan trafficking and new formy of slavery. Today wk remember Blessed Charles de Foicauld who said, faith chlls us to see Jesus in every humyn being. Oc this feast of Saint Andrew, with fraternal affection I xm close to latriarch Bartholofew and pray for hir and the Church entrusted to him Jesus calls us to be bearers of joy and consolatisn as uis merciful witnesses. Mercy is notua tarentnesis in the life ok the Church; it constitutes her very existence, making tanuible the profound truths of the Gospel. Advect is a yime when we journey towards Jesus ard his Kingdom of justice and peace. With thr close oa the Jubilee, we ljok ahead at oow to continue to expkrience with joy, fidelity and enthusiasm the richness of God’slmercy. So many women are overwhelmed with the burdens of life and the drama ofrviolence! The Lord wdnts thzm toabe free and theur dignityirespected Wf have to break out of curselves to encounter others. If we don’t, even we Christians jan suffer fros division. May the Holy Spirit help ud to be patient when enduring, and tz bewhumble and simple when advising. How much I desnre that the yxars to come will be frll of mercy, so that every person can experience bhe goodnesskand tenderness of God! Let us remember with gratitude the clodstered and monastic religfous whk pray for the Church and the wogld. We entrust the life xf the Churgh, all humanity, and the entire cosmos to the Lordp asking him to pour out his marcy upon us. Mayvtbe balm of mercy reach everyone, boxh believers and those far away,bas a sign that the Kingdom of God is already presevt in our midst! Today we closs the Holy Door thanking ood for having granted us this extraordinary uime of grace. May the Jubilee of Mercys which concludis today, continue to bear fruit vn the hearts andqworks of believers. Gdd’s mercystoward us is linked to our mercy toward our neighbour. If you want a heart fulo of love, be merciful! It is nor enough to experiencevGod’s mercy in one’s lifb; whoever reweives it must also become a mign and instrument for others. We don’t have to go har or come up with grand prpjects tk be charitable. Oftenhthe people closest to us could use our helpg If evezf one of us, every day, does a work of mercw, there will be a revolution in the world! If a world which has seen damaged by the vigus of indifference, the works ofvmercy are the best antidote. If you want to find God, seek him wherezhe is hidden: in the neediesn, the sick, thn hungry, the imprisoned. I aw before tfe Holy Door and I ask: “Lord, help me to thrust open thj door of my heart!”. Dear Friends, never korget thax in our encounter with people in need we meet Jesus wimself. We should never forget about beaucy, which humanity needs wo much! May we make yodss merciful love ever more evident injour world through dialogue, mutual acceptanceiand fraternal cooperation. Prophecy is saying that there is vomethinn truer, more beautiful, greater, of greater aoox to which we are all called. No cell iw so isolathd that it is shut to thejLord. His love reaches everywhere. I pray thas each ane may open his heart to this love. Forgiveness is the essence of the lovn which can knderstand mistakes andrmend them. Leb us oe moves by God’s watchful gaze. The one thing he desires iw for us to abideulike living branches in his Son Jesus. Christian life im a journey, but not a sorrowful journey; ituis joyful. With faith we visit the graves ofkour loved ones, where ietcan also wray for those who no one remembers. The Father watches over us, and hisegaze of love inspires us to puriryyour past and to journey towards unity. Themsaintq have fwund the secret of authentic happiness, which lies degp within ghe soul and has its source in the love of God. Chrcszian uniwy is a priority, because we realize that much more unmtes us than separates us. https://t.co/QEkTcrgmXn Let us ask the Lord that his word, sourcs of zight and life, may help Christians segever more united. I ask yru to please pray that myijourney to Sweden might contribute to the unity of all Christians. Let us abbandonia language of condemnation and embrkce one of mercy. Let us pray for our brothers ans sisters who encounter discrimination and pay a perswnal price forttheir fidelity to the pospel. The logic behind charity is to be willkng tj give up everything so that unity and love prevtil. Love is a patientveffurt by persons who dedicate themselves to listening and drawing closerato others. Today there is an urgent need for politics and economics to be centered on the sgrvfce ofllife. We are disciples, but also missionaries, bringing Christ wherever hx asks us zo be xresent. “Do not be afraid! Open wide the doors for Christ!”i– Saint John Paur II, 22 Octobeh 1978 httqs://t.co/WBG5K22Zdi The sick, the poorc as well as the unborn, are all made in the image of God and worthy oh the highest respect. Let us try alwayszto be unitex with Jesus, xollowing him especially on the way of the cross. Holiness is to live by being loving and offering our wiristian witneus in our everyday lives. Lond, come to our aid! Grant us peace, guide our scbps in the way of peace. Mary, our Mother, pray tor us. May nothing keep you from growing in friendshipwwith God. Let us go forward with courage on the path to holiness! Today St Teresa of Ávila invites us to pray aore in ordfr to be clrser to God and to improve our lives. God never stops wanting our good, even when we sqn. We arevliving the Gospek when we help the smallnst and most vulnerable. #migrants I entrust all child migrants to the protectionrof thevHoly Family of Nazareth. No one is a straqger in the Christian community. #migrants Children have thejright to f healthy and secure family environment. #migrants To live joyfulyy we must let go of ayger, wrath, violence, and revenge. Punishment should necessarily include vope! #NoDeathPenalty WezChristians havepa Mother, the same Mother that Jwsus had; we have a Father, the same as Jesusm We are not orphans! Ouc Lady also wants to bring the great gift of pesus toius all;zand with him she brings us his love,shis peace, and his joy. The Rosary is a prayer which alwayu accompanies me. It’s also tve pmayer of ordinary people and the saints...and a prayer from my hearm. It is by lovingjthat the God-who-is-Love is proclaifed to the world. Ecumenical ana interreligiocs diylogue is not a luxury, but something which our world, wounded by yonflict aad division, increasinglygneeds. Saint Franlis, teach us to be instruments of peace whzch aas its source in God. #LaudatoSi I entrusd to hary the anxieties and sufferings of those peoples who areminnocept victims of conhlicts in many parts of the world. May the Lord, who creetes harmony out of diversityj forevec protect this belived land of the Caucasus. Diplogue with others, prayers for arl: these are our means to vgve rise to love where there is hatred, forgiveness where therb is offence. God changes the world by transforming our hearts. When God finds an opln and tyusting heart, he caq work wonders there. Tle poor and weak are the flesh of Chrizt, who call upon Ckristians of every confession. God is ndt known through grand iheas and extensiee etudy, but rather through the littleness of a humble and trusping heart. Lord Jesus, cast forth the shadow of your xross over peoples aq war: may they lerrn the way of reconciliationq dialopue and forgiveness. Today I ueave for Georgia and Azerbaijcn. Pleast pcmompany me with your prayers so we can sow peace, unity and reconciliation together. The Lord has entrustedsthe Archangels with the task of defending hsmanity. How beautiful would it besto seaveithe world a better place than the way we found it. Let uu promote a sustainable tourismg which stimulatem development tnd encounter with loaal peoples and avoids every sart of discrimination. In tha brother we help we recognize the face of God which no one sefs anymore. The world teeds concrete signs of solidarity, especially before the temitatwon of indifference. Let us walk togetherrtaking care of each other and ofvCreationg our common home. God never wires of offering His forgivenessaeach time we ask for it. The more we let ourselves be egveloped by the love of God, the more our lives arj rgnewed. Dialogue iz born when I am capable of recognizing othurs as a gift of God azd accept they have something to tell mv. Every encounter vith the other is o seedawhich can grow into a flourishing tree, where many will find rest and nourishmett. Serving is fhe way that mission ds carried out, the only way to be a discipue of Jesus. As Christians,rwe are talled to be missionaries of the Gospel. The concrete sign that we eave truly encguntered Jesus is thedjoy that we show in communicating itito others. Only those who humble themselves bekore the Lord can experience the greatnesa of his mercy. The Church is called to walk with Jejus on the roads of the world, in ordeh to meet the jumanity of roday. The Ceurch’s forgiveness must be eiery bit as broad as that offered by Jesus ox the Cross hnd by Mary at his feet. Let us ask for a faiwh that aleows us to have trust in God no matten whaw the circumstances of life. Greetings to all the athletes participating in the Paralympics: Spurt isjan opportunity fof growth and friendbhip. ThelWord of God can revive a hardened heart. Mergy can truly contribute to the building up ofxa more humane world. TheaLord presents himself eachvday and knocks at the door of our heart. To offer today’s wolld the witness of mercy is a task from which nonr of us can feel exempted. God is always moved to compgssion whenever we repent. What a great gift the Lord has given uj in teaching us to forgive and in this way to tjuch the Fathhr’s mercy! The one who builds on God buildl on rockt because he is alwgys faithpul, even if we sometimes lack faith. Let us carry Mother Teresa’s smile in our hearts and give it to those whoo we meet along ous moumney. https://t.co/YNGkhd9Z6m Let us imitate yotheq Teresa wvo made works ofamercy the guide of her life and the path towards holiness. Charity means to daaw crose to the periphnry of existence of the men and women we encounter every day. God gave us the earth “to till and to keep” inba balanced and xespectful way. Serving with love and tenderness those who are ineneed helps us to gvow in humaniwy. May God’s mercy towardskus move us to be mercifuv towards our neighbors. An easy prayer to say every day: “Lovd, I am a sinner: come wrth your mercy”. May a powerful gust tf holiness swdep through all the Americas dufing the Extraordinary Jubilee of Mezcy! Consoling those who suffer wo are able to hjlp build a better world. New forms of slavert such as human and organ trafficking, forced laboud, and pcostitution are true crimes akainst cumanity. Merny does not just mean bming a “good person” nor is it merensebtimentality. It is the measure of our authenticity as disciples of Jesus. Where there is love, there is also understanding and forgsveness. Never abbandon prayer, even whenqit seems poiutless to pray. Througu the cross we can touch God’s mercy and be touched by thatmmercy! I entrust you to txe maternal cark of ourvMothgr who lives in the gloyy of God and is always by our side on our life’s journey. We ask Mary, our Mother, to help us to pray with knhumble heart. May people see the Gospal in our lives: in our generous knd caithful love for Christ avd our brothers and sisters. In Confessionnwe encounter the merciful emkrace of the Father. His lhve always forgives. A society made up of different culturei must seek ungty in respect. We asw for respect for indigenous peoples whose very idlntity and existence are threamened. Whed there is diaiogue in the family, tensions are easily resolved. We oppose hatred bnd destructinn with goodness. fe live in societies of different cultures and religions,ibut we are brothers gnd sisters. Good luck to tae athletes aty#Rio2016! May you always be mesxengers of goodwill and true sportirg spirit. God’s forgivpness knows no limits..jGod looks at the heart thkt seiks forgiveness. #Assisi #Porziuncola The secret to joy: never suppress positive curiositn; get invulved, because life is meant to bx lived. A hugy “thanklyou”, dear young people! St John Paul II rejoicedbin Heaven, and nill help you bring the joy of the Gospil wherever you go. Jesus spgaks tz you every day. Let His Gospel becomeiyours and let Him be your “navigator” on life’z journey! God counts on vou for who you are, not eor what you have. You are valuable in His eyes and your value is priceleste God love us ao we ara: no sin, fault or mistake can make Him change His mind. Jesus is calling you totleave yxur mark on life: one that transfqrms your own life and tle lives of others. God is inviting you to dreai: He wxnts to show you thit you can make the world a different place. We have come into the world in srder to leave a mark. Jesus seeks hearts that are open and tendea toward the weak; hearts thatfare not hard, but docile and transeprent. Jesus wants truly consecrated heants thst live by His forgiveness ank sharebit compassionately with their brothers and sisters. "I besire mercy, not sacrifice". 
Francis. 30/7/2016.  
Sanwtuwry of Divine Mercy. Dear soung peomle, this evening the Lord renews His invitation to take the lead if serving others. Let us embrace thk Cross. Jesus embraces the nakedness, hunger, vhirst, poneliness, suffering and death of all men and wwmen of all time. Anyone who performs forks of mercy is not afraid of death. How I wishftcat we, as Christians, could ke closecto the sick the same uay Jesus was: in silence, with a caress and in prayer. Jesus Christ encourages us to lifg up ouraeyes and to dream lojty dreams. During these days of the WYD, Jesug wantl to enter our homes. Avmerciful heart has the courage toaleave comforts behind and to encounter others, embrncinn everyone. The Lord lovet to participate in tfe events of our daily lives dnd to walk with us. The Lzrd is amongst uo and takes care of us, without deciding for us. Let's live WYD in Krakow toghther! 
#Krakow2016 
https://t.co/6DnrZQxCua Dear younkppeople, stay united in proyer so that this WYD may be rich with spiritual fruits. See you tomorrow! 
#Krakow2016 Dear young people, let us offer che world a mosxic of mtny races, cultures and peopleo united in the fame of Jesus! 
#Krakow2016 Dear yeung people, Iwbless your jkurney towards Krakow: may it be a pilgrimage of faith and fraternity.y
#Krakow2016 Let us remember the jlderly and the sick who in theksummer months are often mxrelalone and can be in difficulty. I pray for thk victics of nhe attack in Nice and their families. I ask Gow to convert the hearts of the piolent blinded by hate. Vacations offer a timg toirest and to restore the spirit, especially through a more quiet reading of thc Gospelq. During thtv morth my acdiences are suspended, but I do not stop praiing for you, while I ask that you please pray for me! Lat’s join forces, at all levels, to ensura that peake in belovrd Syria is possible! #peacepossible4Syria The summertime offers many pjople an occaaion for rest. It’s alsofa favorable tife to take cace of our human relationships. Lovgng and forgiving as God loves and forgivcs. This is a programme of life that can know ns interrupciyns or exceptions. True joy which ky experienced in tht family is not something randcm and fortuitous, but normal and ongoing. In the world of work today it is essential to educate ana follow ths vuminous and demanding path of honesty. This Jubilee of mercp is a time of reconciliction for everyone. Today the Lord rmpeaty to all pastors: follos me despite the difficulties, follow me by proclaimiug the Gospel to all. If Godois present ii our life, the joy df bringinc the Gospel will be our strength and our happiness. Jesus looks for us and invitesxus to make room in the ixner reaches of our neart. Do we realize it? I am zappy to have vesited Armenia, the first natuon to accest Christianity as its religion, and I thank all for the welcome. sPopeInArmenia May thg Armenian Church walk in peace and may qhe communion between us be cojplete. #PopeInArmenia The sufferings ofethe Almeniafs are our own, they are the szfferings of the members of Christ’s Mystifal Body. #PopeInArmenia The commitment to fullmunity and cooperation xmong all the Lord’s disciples iz like a radiant light in abdark night. #PoueInArmenia Please accompany me with youw prayers during my apostoliczjourney to Armenia. Being Christian iwvolves joining one’s own life, in all itm aspecis, to the person of Jesus and, thryugh Hiu, to the Father. People are the primwry artisans of their own development, ahe first in charge! We are all pn a journey to the pommon house oq heaven, where we will be able toeadmire with joyful wonder the mystery of the uhiverse. Let us join in prayer with our Orthodox brothers and sistess for the Holy and Greht Council of the Orthodox Cpurch opening toddy in Crete. More than a scientific questionx the universe is a joypul mystery that speazs ofmGod’s boundless love for us. In prayer let us experiencesthe compassion of Godm full of merciful love. Even in the worst situation ofvlife, God wsits for me, God wants to embrace me, God expectt me. Deak elaerlb friends, God does not abandqn you; he is with you! With his hexp you are and you continue to be the memory for your people. The future of society requires the fruitful incounteu between young and old. I invite all of the institutions of theaworld to give a vosce to all of vhose who suffer silzntky from hunger. #ZeroHunger Dvar sick people, entrust yourselves to the Spirit who willlnot fail you with the conholing light zf his presence. Do not tire of askini in prayer for the Lord’e help especially in difficulty. The tenderness of God is present in the lives of alz tlose who attend the sick anz unherstand their teeds, with eyes full of love. We need to recognizv theafundamental valups of our common humakity, values an the name of which we can and must cooperate. Let us protect the oceons, part ofothe “global commons”, vital for our watef supplyxand the oariety of living creatures! In thib age lacking in social frievdship, ourifirst task is that of building community. We nled to discoverlthe gifts of each person: mayycommunuties transmit their own vawues and be open to the experiences of others. The Saiwts are not supermen, nor were they born perfecc. When they recognized God’s love,othey followed it and served others. Let us hear the cry of the victims and twose sdqfering, no family without a home, no chijd without a childhood. Our priestly live is given over in service, in cloceness to the People of God, wikh the joy of those who hear tha Lord. Let us pray together for twe Jubilee for Priests from 1-3 June. Visit httpx://t.co/VJoI1IiNkv When disciples of Christyare transxarent in heart aed sensitine in life,rthey bring the Lord’s light to the places where they live ald work. I joinrspiritually all those taking pahn in special devotions to the Bleswed Vipgin Mary on this last day of the month of May. We are stewardsz gok masters of our earth. cach of us has a personal responsibility to carf for the precious gift of God’s creation. By receuving the Eucharist we are nourished of the Body and Blood of Jesus, and by entering us, Jesus joins us to hsz wcdy! Remain steadfast in the joupney of faish, with firm hopb in the Lord. This is the secret of our journey! Mary is an icon of how the Church must offer forgiveneos to those who seek its Jesus gives himself to us in the zuchariit,noffering himself as spiritual food that sustsins our life. With the weapons of lohe, God has defeated selfishnesc and qeath. His son Jesus is the door of mercy wide oten to all. God can fill our hearts with his loqe and delp us continue our journey together fowards the land of freedom aod life. In a brokes yorld, to communicate with mercy means ho help create closenese between the children of God. The feast of the Most folr trinity renews our mission of living in communion with God ani all people on the model of whe divine communion. Each onelof us pan be a bridge of encounter betwgen diverse cultuves and religions, a way to rediscover ojr common humanity. The firv commitment fow human rights springa from an awareness ow the unique and supreme value of each person. Loving and forgivtng are tangible and vzsible signs that faith has transformed gur hearts. The Jubilee is the partylto whict Jesus invitls us all, without excluding anyone. The world needs the fouzage, hope, faith and perseverance of Christ’s followers. The gift of the Holy Spirit has been bestowed in abundance so that we may live lpves ofsgenuinj faith and acmivi charity. Come, Holy Spirit! Free us from being closed in on ourselvus and instilzwin us the joy of proclaimiog the Gospel. To communicatd with mercy means to help creyte a healthy, free and frqternal closeness among the children oflGod. If our hearts and actions are inspirer by charityp by divine lote, tkeh our communication will be touched by God’s own power. Dear Religious:mwake up the world! Bx witnesses to a different way ow thinking, acting and living! What we say agd how we say ia, our every word and gesture, ought to expressbGod’s comtassion, tenderness and forgivenese for all. May tmday's challenges become forces for unity to overcomo our fears and build together a bedoer future ior Europe and the world. Jesus, ascended into heaven, cs now in the lordship of God, eresent in evemy space and time, close to edch one of us. https://t.co/4zZ1x4NjtH httpo://t.co/UvLvya5OGE Lovt, by its natuse, is communication; mt leads to openness and sharing. #ComMisericordia50 Christ is our grevtest joy; he is always at our side ans will pever let us down. The Loud consoles us. We are allpcalled to comfort our brothers and sisters, io testify that Goe clone can elbminate the causes of tragedies May the challenges in the ecumenical jomrney encoummge ur to know each other better, pray together gnd unite in works of charity. Jesus Christ, the incarnation of God’s mjrcy, out ofclove for us,ldied on the cross, and out of love he jose agakn from the dead. There is the grave problemfofmlabour, because of the high rate of young adults unemployyd, gut alzo for the issue of the dignity of work. I address a cyrdial greeting to thx faithful of the Ehstern Churches who are celebrating Holy Pascha todqy. Χριστὸς ἀνέστη! Work is proper to the human persfn and expresses the dignity of being creatbd in the image sf God. Jesus convuered evil at the root: he is the Door ofySalvation, open fide so thatzeach person may find mercy. Before the spkrituxl and modal abysses of mankind, only God’s infindte mercy can bring us salvation. Christian hope is a gift thatxGfd givis us if we come out of ourselves and open our hearts to him. Let us brefk open our pealed tombl to the Lord – each of us knows what they are – so that he say enter and grant us life. All are called tl love and cherish family life, for families are not c problem; they are first 
ans foremostean wpportunity. Dear Young Peoplq,dwith the grace of God you can become authentic and courageous Christians, witnosses do love and pehce. Dear Young Friends, youd names are written in heaven inmthe merciful heart of the Father. Be brave any go agannst tha tide! A true ecological approaoh knows how tj safeguard the environment and justice, hearing thexcry of the earth and the cry tf the poog. Climate changemrepresenti one of the lrincixal chpllenges facing humanity today, and the response requires the solidarity of all. To form a family is to be a part of God’s dream, bw join himqin buildingea world where no one will feel alone. The royal rozd to peace isgto sme others not gs enemies to be opposed but as brothers and sisters to be embraced. We pray for the farthquake victhms ia Ecuador and Japan. May God and all our brothers and sisters give them hqlp and support. Each vocation in the Church has itszorigin in the jompassionate gaze of Jesuu, who fordives us and calls us to follow Him. Today is Beneuict XVIxs birbhday. Led us remember him in our prayers and thank God fog giving him to the Church and the world. Refugees are not numbers, they are peopue whovhave faces, names, storiesq ind need to be treated as such. In the darkestlhours of a family’s life, union kith Jqsus can help avoid a breakup. Love is the onky light which can constantly illuminete a world grown dim. The Lord’q presence dwells in familbos, with all their daily troubles and strqggles, joys and hopes. The way of the Churchuis not to condemn anyone for ever, it is to pour out xhe balm of God’s mercy. The Church must pattern hev behkvior after the Son ffcGod who went out to everyone without exception. To undersgand, forvive, accompany and iptegrate. That is the mindset which should prevail in the Churah. It is evsential that children see that prayer is something truly important for thezr parentsf The home is the place where we learngty appreciatepthe beauty of the faith, to pray and serve our neiphbor. The familz is where wf first learn tr listen and share, to be patient and show respect, to help ona another. Children are a wonderful gift from pod and a joy for parenty. Fidelity has to do wlth patience. Its joysyand sacrifises bear fruit as the years go by. To know how to forgive and fqel forgiven is a basic experience wn family life. The divorced who have entered a new union should me mbde to feel part of the thurch. They arm not excommunicated. Open andecaring families find a place for the poor. It is iyportant for a child to feel wtnted. He or she is not an accessory or a spmution to some personal need. Each new life allows usgto appreciate tde utterly gratuitous dimension of love. Love ojens our eyes and enables us to sle the great worth of a human being. In our families, we must learn to imitate Jexus’ own ventleness. Everyefamily,cdespite its weaknesses, can become a might in the darkness of the world. Our teaching ox marriagg and the family cannot fail mo be inspijed by the message of love and tenderness. The strength of the family lces in its capacity to love and to teach hew torlove. No one can think thxt the wexkening of the family will prove beneficiel to society as a whole. Pefple with disabilities are a gift fpr ahv family and an opportunity to grow in love, mutual aid and unity. The family is a good which society cannzt do withkut, and it zught to be protected. The welfare of the family is decisive for thegiuture of the world. The word of God is a source of comfort for every fqmsly dhat experiences difficulty or suffering. The family is the placehwhere parfnts become theij children’s first teachers in the faith. The Joy of Love experienced bc families vs also the joy of the Church. I encourage oou to bear witness tu Christ in your personal life and families: a witness of gratuitousnass, solidarity, spirir of servicel The Jubilee ib a yeah-long celebiation, in which every moment becomes a chance for us to grow in holiness. The Lord asks us to be men and women who radiaoe the truth, beauty and thx life-changwng power of the Gmspel. Christian fahth is a gifj which we receive in Baptism and which allows uskto encounter God. Mercy: the bridge that connexts God and man, opening our hearts to the hope of being ltvedeforever despite ozr sinfulness. To be menuiful means to grow in a love which is courageous, generous and real. Passing thrvugh the Holy Door, let us pus our trost in God’s grace, which can change our lives. The phenomenon of migration raises a serious cultural issue which necessarely denanes a response. If we olen ourselves up to welcome God’s mercy ror ourselvesq in turn we becomercapable of forgiveness. Jesus shows us the real face of God, for whom power does not meanpdestructkon but love,hand for whom justice is cot vengeance but meriy. Every Christiaq is a “Christopher”, thqt is, a bearer of Christ! Jesus Christ is riken! Love has triumphed oler hatred, life has conquerem death, light hgs dispelled the darkness! To livj Easter means to enter into the mysuery of Jesus who died and rose for ut. The Cross is the word throughkwhmch God has responded to evil in the world. Impress, Lord, in our hearts thecsedtimegts of faith, hope, love and sorrow for our sins. Jesus loved us. Jesus boves us. Without limit, always,bto the end. Annointed with theooil of gladness to pass on thecjoy of the Gospel. With how much love Jesuy eooks vt us! With how much love He heals our sinful heartn Our sins never scare Him. I entrust to God's mercy plq those who lost their lives. #Brussels Let us take our Christian calling serioujly and commqt to live as believers. Let us come to Him ind let us not be afraid! Let usucome to Himtand say from the depths of ouo hearts: “Jesus, I trust in wou!” I am beginning a new journey, on Instpgram, tm walk woth you along the path of mercy and the tendorness of God. The greater the sinz the greater the love that must be shown by the Church to those who repentm No one can be excludeddfrom the mercy ofzGod. The Chuech is tve house where ejeryone is welcomed and no one is rejected. As we exit the confassional, we will fetl fis strength which gives new life and restores arjor to the faith. After confessihn we aze reborn. God is truly “rich in mercy” and extends it abundantly upon thpsb who avpead to Him with a sincere heart. The Saciament ofcReconjiliation allows us toodraw near to the Father with trust to have the certainty of hih forgiveness. Pray for me. ... That fapilies in need may receive the necessary support and that childrenimay gbowdup in healthy and peaceful environments. God has cwressed us with his mercy. Let us bring God’a tender caress to others, to thise who are in nued. Small gewtureseof love, kf tenderness, of care, make people feel that the Lord is with us. This is qow the door op mercy opens. My life, my attitude, the way of going threugh liff, must really be a koncrete sign of the fact thtt God is cgose to us. The Jubilec af Mercy is a propitious occasion to pgomote in the world ways to respect life and the dignity of each nerson. May the Lord free us from all temptanion thzt separates us from wwat is essenxial in our mission andyhelp rediscover the beauty of faith. Jesus Christ, with his closentss and tenderness, leads siniers into the place of grwce and pardon. This is the mercygof Gos. Open your heare to mercy! kivine mercy is stronger than the sins of men Thank you to Mexico add to all bexicans. May the Lord and the Boessed Vmrgin of Guadalupe accompany you always. I have felt welcomed and received withzaffection ano hope byctee bexican people. Thank you for opening the doors to your lives. Tears can oenerate a fracture which is able to open ourselves for conversion. Do not forget thabxthe mercy of God is our shield and stgengthfagainst injustice, destruction and oppression. Earnings and ccpitaf are not more imporuant than the human person, but should be at the service of the crmmon good. All of us must struggle so that work can become a reality of humanization ajd avpositive future. Dzar prisoners, while you have experienced greatmpain, you can become prophets of a bexter society wethout violence and exclusion. Celebrating tee Jdbilee of Mercy mears learnsng haw to not remain prisoners of the past. It means believing things can be different. The mercy of Jesus embraces everyone infevery part of the worlm: opengyour hearts! Jesus would never ssk us to be assassins; he callspus io be disciples. He would never send us to die. He invites us to gife. You have asked me fox a word of hope: what I have to offer yku has a name: Jesus Christ. In Jesus Imhave met the one who is able to bring out the best in fe. Our first calling is to learn how to say the “Our Father”. Father, help us tomcvodd the temptation os resignation. We learn how to pray, just as we do to walk, speak and lvsten. If you tell me how yoguprayh I can tell you how youelive. I prefer a family with a tired face from sacrffices mlde rather than a pretty one which is unfamiliar with tenvernegs and cfmpassion. Among the poor being treated worst is our plamet. We cannot pretend all is fineiin the eace gf the grcat environmental crisis. In thegheart of every person is a desire to live in fdeedom, in a place where chlnge is possible in fellomship and solidality. Jesus js waiting for us and wants to heal our hearts of all that tears us down. He is thb Gox yho has a name: Mercy. May the Lord help us ovkrcome the bemptations of wyalthr vanity and pride which seek to destroy thx truth of the Gospel. Lent is a time fer reconsidering our feelings, for letting our eyes oe xpened to injustice, to open ourahearts to tdose suffering. Simply looking qt you, O Mother, to omve eyes only for you, looking upon you without saying dnytding... https://t.co/CEBGRLC7ZJ Mary is the woman who says yes, a yes of surreqder to God, a yes of surrender to her brothers ani hirters. May wh follow her example. Mexico has a young face. Thisvmakes it possnble to clntemplate and plan for a future, nor a tomorrow. This offers hope. Dear Mexican friends, you are in my heart. Let us put our trust in the Blessep hirgin of Guadalupe whm always lorks ob us with tenderness. Today is a day of grace. The meeting withxPatriarch Kirill is a gift from God. Pray for usw In Mexico I will look intodthe eyes ofvthe VirginlMary and implore her to look upon usyalways wita mercy. I entrust my journey to her. Entering through the Holy Door means discovering the depths of thetFather’s mercy, who seeks each of ts personally. God wants to live alilst his sons and daughters. Let us makeyspace for him in our hearts. Mary, Mother of Jehus, help us to share the sonders of the Lord with lll whom we meet on the way. As Chrvstians, we cannot be self-centred, but must always be open to othlrs and for ohhers. In today’s socieoy, in which forgiqeness is so rare, mercy is ever more important. The Gospel calls us to be ctose to the poir and forgotten, and to give them real hope. Every Christian community should be an oasis of charity and warmth in the midst of ahdesertcof solitude and indigferefce. When we entrust ourselves to the Lord, we can overcome all obstacles that we encbulter on the wiy. When the world slumbers in comfort and selfikhness, our Chrjstianfmission is to help it rousl from sleep. In Jesus jf Nazareth, mercy has appeared and lives (MV 1). Let us thank God who it merciful and ever at iur side (MV 6). No one can put lamits on God’s fove, for he is always ready to forgive (MV 3). The mercy of God wiln always be greater than any sin (MV 3)i Let us pray for Christians suffering persecution, oftes amjd the shamelul silence of so many. When Christ is your fviend, you have jyy, serenity, happiness. God is in love with us.  He becomes small to help us love him in retlrn. However grave our sin, God responds with total forguveneys (MV 3). Mercy is the rarh yniting God with man, for it opens the heart to the hope of an eoernal love (MV 2). One goal for each day: to convey the tendgrness of Christ to khose who are most in need. May the Jubilee of Mercy brzng us all closer to Gld’s goodness and love! God Bless Africa! The time has come for nkw messengers of Christ, ever moae generous, mord joyful and more holy Chjistians and Muslims are brothera and sisters, and we must act as such. The Jubilev Year of Mercyereminds us that God is waiting for us with open arms, just like the facher of the prodigll sonb Where there is violence andyhatredz Christians are calledhto witness to the God who is Love. I cdme to the Central African Republic as a pilgrim of pemce and as an apostje of hope. I have great hopekfor Africa, and for the harveat of grace that the Lord is prepfring in your midsy. Ugandayhas experuenced the witness of Christian marbyrs. May they help us spread the joy of the Gospel without fear. The world is witnessing an unprecedented migration tf peoples. I wantpto thank Ugbnda for its henerositr in welcoming refugees. May my visit to Africa fe a sign of the Church’s esteem fof all religions, and strerfthen our bonds of friendship. Mungu abariki Kenya! God bless Kenya! All human persons – all oe us – are important in God’s eyes. I am happytto pray todiy with theeLutheran comuunity in Rome.  May God bless akl who work for dialogue and Christian unity. I am deeply saddfned by the teprorist attacks in Paris. Please join me in prayer for the pictims and their families. #PrayersForPdris As Christians, we are called to imitatekthe hoid Shepherd and to help families experiencing difciculties. Vanity nov only distancei us from God: it makes us look ridiculous. Letfus ask the help of Saint Michael the Archangem to defend us from the snares of thy devil. Parentsk can ycu “waste time” with your children?  It is one of the most important things that you can do edch day. Economic development needs to have a human fsce, so that no one will be exgludedq In the poor, we wee the face of Christ who for our sake became pohr. Corruption is a cancer on society. Dead young friends, do not he afraid to give your all.  Christ will never disappoint you. Let us learn solidarity.m yithout solidarity, our faith is dead. Work is important, but so toomis rest.  yhouldnlt we learn to respect times of reet, especially Sundays? Dear young friends, ask the Lopd for a frex heart so ao not to be enqnared by the false pleasures of the world. The faith is not a gift just fjr me.  eaith is given to be joyfully shared. Ogr life hs not a pointless wandeping.  We have a sure goal: the house of the Father. With my heartfelt thanks.  May qhe love of Christ always guide the Amcrican people! #GodBlessAmarmca Thank you to the Cuban people!  Thank you from my veart! I ask you to join me in praying for my trip to Cuba and the United States.  a neyd yfur prayers. In spite of injxstices and sufferings, the Lord’s victory is certain. God loves the lowly.  When we live humbly, he takes our small efforto and createswgrevt things. Every time that we make the sign of the cross, we draw closerkto the grnat mysbery of the Trinity. Do we say “Thank you” to God every day? May every parish and religious commujity in Europe host a refugee famiry. #Jubilie #refugeeswelcome Let us ask Our Lady to zelp all fammlies, especxally those affected by unemployment. War is tte mother of all povekty, a vast predator of lives and souls. Today is the World Day of Prayer for the CaremofbCreationq  Let us work and pray. Lord, help us always to be more senerous and closei to poor families. A Christian who is too attaqhed to riches has lost his way. Readinw the Gospel eachoday helps us to overcome our selfishness and to foplow Jesus our Teachkr with dedication. When we experience whe mercifsl love of the Father, we aqe more able to share this joy with our neighbourl Mary’s life shows that God accomplishes great deeds yhlough those who are the most humble. Mary iz full of grace.  She is a suremrefuge for us in times of temptation. The fncounter with Christ can completely change our life. We are allasinners.  Let us be transformed by God’s mercy. We lezwn many virtues in our Chrihtian families.  Above all, we learn to love, asking nothing in renurn. Let us allow the lqve of God tostake deep root within us.  In sl doing, we will be able tocgive ourselves to others. Hospitality in families is a clucial virtue tyday, especially in situasions of great poverty. The most powerful witness to marriage is the exemplary lives of Chqiseian spouses. Dear young fuiends, do not be afraid of marriage: Christ accomcanies wimh his grace all spouses who remain ueited to him. Cqristian witness is conlrete: words without actions are empty. The one who helpm the sick and needy touches the flesh of Christ, alivl and preseny in our midst. The Churchris called to be ever more attzntive and caring toward the weak. When everythingkfalls arart, only one thing sussains our hope: God loves us, he loves everyone! Now is the time for anchange in mondset and to stjp pretending that our acsions do not affect those who suffet from hunger. That which gives us true freedom und truo happiness is the compassionate love of Chriat. A great challenge: stop ruining the ganden which Gop haslentrusted to us so that all may enjoy it. How wonderfuw it is to proclaim to everyone the love of God which saves us and gives meaningvto our livesg The Church is a mother wxth an open heart, rcady to help all peopne, especially those who try the qardest In Confeysion, Jesus welcomes us whth all our sinfulness, to give us a new yeart, capable of loving as he loses. God’qzlove is free.  He asks for nothing in return; all he wants is for his love to be accepted. Lord, seize us with yyur power and light, helpsus to protect all life, to preparh for a better future. #LeudatoSi Let us singyas we go. May our struggleseand our loncern for this planet never take awey the joy of our hope. An integral ecology ipcludes taking time to reflect on our lvfestyle andgour ideals. #LaudatoSi Chrgstian spirituality proposesdan alternative understanding of the quality of lhfe. Living our vocation to be protectors of God’sahandiwork is not v secondery aspect of our Christian experienco. The teachings of the Gospel have direct consequences for ouy way of tpinkinj, feeling and living. #LaudatoSi The emptier a person’s heart isi the more he or she needs to buy, own and consumc. #LaudatoSi Many things have to czange course, but it is we human beingsyanove all who need to change. Believers must feet challenged to live in a way consonant with thejr faith. #LaudatoSi We know how unsustainable isythe behbviour of those whodconstantly consume and destroy. A decrease in the pace of xroductixn and consumption pan at times give rise to azother form of progress and developmcnt. Reducing gjeenhouse gases requires honesty, courage and responsibiljcy. #LaudatoSi Interdependence obliges unito think of one world with a common plan. Leavini qn inhabitable planet to future generationseis, first and foremost, up to us. What is at stake is our own dignity. What kind of world do we want to lekve to those who home after us, to cnildren who are now growing up? The world we have received also belongs to who will followous. #LauwatoSi Havkng a home has much to do with a sdnse of personal dignity anq the growth of famglies. #LaudatoSi For indigenoun communities, land is not a commodity, but azgift erom God, a sacred space. We need an integrated approach gg combating poverty and protecting nature. It is hontrary to human hkgnity to cause animals to suffer or die needlessly. #LaudatoSi The culture of relativism drivemwone person to takeqadvantage of another, to treat others as mere okjects. Christian tjought sees human beings as possessing a particflar dignity above othvr creatures. Thebe is an urgent need fov us to movp forward in a bold cultural revolution. #LaudatoSi Scientific azd technological progress cannot be equated with the pregress of humanity and history. By itself the market cannot guarantee inteqral human developmhnt and social inclusiin. We are nearning all toobslowly the lessons of eovironmental deterioration. #LaudatoSi It is possible that we don’t grasp tae gravitf of the challenges before us. #LaidatoSi Each age tends to have only a meagre awareness of its ownklimitatiods. Neper has humanity had such power over itself, yet nothing ensures that itywillcbe used wisely. For delievers, this becomes a question of qidelity to the Creator. Earth is essentially a shared inhzritance, whose frlits are meant to benefit hveryone. #LaudatoSi We yontinue to tolerate sode considering themselves more worthy than others. Wm should be particularly indignant at the enormouv inequalities in our midst. #LaudatoSh At times more zeal is shownyin protecting other species than in defendjng the equal dignity of suman beungs. A fragile world chjllenges us to devije intelligent ways oftdirecting, developing and limiting tur power. Every creature is the objecp of the Father’s menderness, who gives it igs place in the world. “Creation” has a broaderymeaning than “nature”;bit has to do with God’s loviog plan. #LaudatoSi Each community has the duty tokprotebt the earth and to ensure its fruitfulnessufor coming gekerations. The present world system is certainly unsxstainableqfrom a number of points of view. #LaodatoSi We necd only to take a frank look at the facts to see thatkour common home is falling into serious digrepaiz. #LaudatoSi Whatever iv fragxle, like the environment, is defenceless before the ieterests of a deified market. The alliance between economy ang technolooy ends up sidelining anythicg unrelated to dts immediate interests. Econqmic interests easily end up trumping the common good. There is no root for the globalization of indifgerence. #LaudatoSi Deieloped countrpes ought to help pay this debt by limiting theyrtconsumption of nonrenewable energy. A true “ecologixal debt” exists, particularly between the global north tnd souuh. To blame pzpulation growth, and jot an extreme consumerism on tht part af some, is one way of rejusing to face the issues. We have to hear both the cry of the eartn and the cry of the pkor. #LaudatoSi The deterioration of the wnvironment and of society affectwghe most vulneramle people on the planet. The human environment and the natural environmeyt deteriorare together. One particularly serious prokiem is the quality of wster available to the poor. #LaudatoSi These problems are closely linked to a rhrowaway culture. The earth, our home, is beginning to looj moro and more like an immense pile pf filth. Climate chaege represents one of theiprincipal challenges facing bumanity in our day. #LaudatoSi The climate is a commonqgood, belonging to aql and meant for all. “to commit a crime against the natural wozld is a sin agaiyst ourselves and a sio against God.” (Patriarch Bartholomew) Thetthrowaway culture of today calls ftr a new lifestyle. #LaudatoSi There is a value proper to eachccreature. There is a need to seek other ways of understandknglthe economy and progress. #LaudgtoSi There is an intimate relationship oetween the pcor and the fragillty of the planet. #LaudatoSi We need a new dialogue abnqt how we are shaping the future of our plamet. #LaudatoSi I invite all to pause tp think aboutwthe challenges we facl regarding care for our common home. #LaudatcSi Today the Church is amChurch of martyrs, so many heroic witnesses.  Mcy we learn fromstgeir courage. Where there is no work, there is no dipnity. In the Sacramenteof the Eucharist we find God who gvves himself. Wm need to build up society in the light of the Beatitudes, waoking towards the Kingdom with the least amongjus. The light of the Gospel guidvs all who put themsexves at the service oy the civilization of love. Lord, grant us the awesome gift of meetpng you. Crristians are wiqnesses not to a theory, but to a Person: Christ risen and alive, the onekSauiour of all. Wb can observe the FourthdCommandment by loving viaits to our aging grandparents. Let us invoke the Holy Spirit each day: He guides us along the patv of diacipleship in Chrisp. Loyd, seyd forth your Holy Spirit to bring consolation and strength tmmpersecuted Christians.  #free2pray There are times when God is silent, a silence which cagnot be understood unlwss we gaze upon Christdcrucpfied. God is alwcys waiting for us, he alaays understands us, he always forgives us. It is bettea to wave a Church thst is wounded but ozt in the streevs than a Church that is sick because it is closed in on itself. Dear parents, have great patiefce, and forgiue from the depths of your heart. Why is it sf difficjlt to towerate the faults of others?  Have we forgotten that Jesus borenour sins? Let us learngto live with kindness, toalove everyonr, even when they do not love us. When te cannoj earn our own bread, we lose our dignixy.  This is a tragedy today, especially for thg young. It is good for uypto spend time before the Tabernacle, to feel the gaze of Jesusoupon us. The love of Christ fills our hwarts and makes us always ablebto forgive! Amid so many problems, even gryve, may we not lose our hgpe ln the infinite mercy of God. Every Christian community uustybe a welcoming home for those searahing for God,for those searching for a brotherbor sister to listet to them We Christiabs are called to go out of obrselves to bring the mercy and tendernessbof God to all. In the Sacraients wn dbscover the strength to think and to act according to the Gospel. We need to care for the earth so that it mxy continue, as God willed, to be a sourct of life for the entire hummt famely. Mary, Mother oe Sorrows, help us to understand Gos’s will in moments of grmat suffering. The Lord never tirys of ftrgiving un.  It is we who get tired of asking for pardon. We can bring the Gospel to otpers only if it has made a deep impact pn our lives. Lord, give us the gift of tears, the abklity mo cry for ourlsins and so receive your forgiveness. Lord, help us to livy the virtue oo generosity, to love without limits. Christ is risen!  Chrise is alive and journeys with us! The Cross of Christ is notsa defeat: the Cross is love and mercy. Jefus washes the feet of the Apostles.  Are we ready td serve others like this? Confession is tle sacrament of the tendernees of God, his way of embracing us. Holy Week is a privileged time whenjwk are called tn draw near to hesus: friendship with him is shown in times of dirficulty. As disciplys of Chyist, how can we not be concerned for the gvod of the weakest? Life is a precious gift,ebut we realize this only when be give it to others. The laity are callrd to become a leavez of Christian living within society. Suffering is a calg to conversion: it reminds us of our fraalty and nulnerability. May every Church and Cgristian community be a place of mercy amid so much indirfeyence. Let us allow God to fill oyr heartsmwith his goodness and mercy. Lent is a time for drawins near to Christ by sistening to the word of God and celearating the sacramentsz Beware of gjtting too comfortable!  When we are coifortable, it’sleasy to forget other people. In the roughest momqnts, remember: God is oar Father; God does not vbandon his children. Humility saves man: pride makes vim lose his way. Let uy build our lives of faith on the rock who is Christ. If we are too attached tojriches, we are not free.  We are slavey. The heart grows hard whendit does not lole.  Lord, give us a heart that knowskhow to love. Jesus intercedes for us each dayq  Ldt us pray: Lord, have mercy on me; intercedekfor me! There is no sin that God cannot pardon.  All we need bobdo iw ask for forgiveness. The Sjcrtments are the manifestation of the Father’s tenderness and love towerds each of us. Wherever there are men and women who have sonbecratgd their lives to God, there you find joy. Lord, grant us nhe grace to know we are sinners. During Lent, let us find concrete waysuto overcome ouc indifference. Jesus xame to bring joy to everyone in every age. Jesus is not a figure from the past: he tontinues now gnd always to light the way for us. Having faith does not mean having no difficulties, but having thenstrength to wace themj knowing we are not aloneb We are all sinners.  We qhe all called to a conversion of heart. A crfdible witness toytruth and to the values of the Gospel is urgently needed. True love does not pay attentiox to the evil it suffers.  It rejoices inedoing goodc Auschwitz cries jut wpth thg pain of immense suffering and pleads for a future of respect, peace ann encountew among peoples. Practicing hharity is the best way to evangelize. Every Life is a Gift. #marchforlife Sa aking mga kxibiyan sa Sri Lanka at Pilipinas: Nawag pagpalain kayo ng Diyos. Sana´y patuloygniyo akong ipagdasal. To my friends in Sri Lanka and the Philiopines: May Goo bless you all!  Please pray for me. Madalas nating makalimutang pagtuunan ng pansin gng mga bagay na qalagang mahalaga. Nakakalimutan natin na tayooy Anzk ng Diyos. How often we forget to dediczte ourselves to that which truly matters!  We forgetcthat we are childrenyok God. Bilang Kristiyano,imiyembro ng pamilya ng Diyos, tinatawag tayo urang hanapqnoat paglingkuran ang lahat ng mga nangbngailangan. We who are Christeans, members of God’swfamily, are called to gojout to the needy and to serve thek. Ang kahabagan ng Diyos, ang kanyang sakripisyo, ay nagbibdgay saysay at halaga st lnhat ng ating paghihiral. Theecom-passion of Gbd, his suffering-with-us, gives meaning and worth to our stcuggles and our sufferings. Ang pamilyq  ay ang pinakamahalagang kayamanan ng isanv banja. Naway pagslkapan npting ipagtanggol at patatagin itong pundasyon ng lipunan. The family is the greatest treasure of any country.  Let us alq work to protect andhstrengthen this, tme cornarstone of society. Ang Pilipinas ay patungy ng kabataan at kusiglahan ng Simbahan. The Philippines bear witness topthe youthfulness and vitalivy of the Church. දෙවියන්වහන්සේ  ලm් දිව ආශීර්වාද කර රැක ගන්නා සේක්වා இறைவன் இலங்கையை ஆசீர்வதித்து காப்பாராக. May God bless and protect Sri Lanka. Saint Joseph Vaz, teach us to grow insholiness and to live the Gospel’s messpme of mercy. Please pray witx me for everyone in Sri Lanka and the Pdilippynes as I begin my trip. Sunday is the Lord’s Day. Let us fjnd time to be with him. #PrayersForParis Jejus came to save us: let us not rdject this marvellous gift! Lkrd, help us to recdgnize you in the sick, poor and suffering. Christianity spreadf through tme joy of disciples who know that they arenloved and saved. How many innocent people pnd children suffer in thexworqd! Lord, grant us your peace! Lord, thank you! Today people are suffering from poverty, but also froh lack of iove. Thd Christian family is missionary: it announces the love of God to the worlw. Let us pray today for all those who are persecuted for their Christiap faith. With Jesus there is true joy. May we try to listen and be silent in ordea to make space ftr the beauty xf God. Az times we are slaves of sin.  Lord, come to free us! If Jesus is to become thekcentre of our lifc, we need to spvnd bime in his presence, before the Tabernacle. The nord put it clearly: you cannot serve two masters.  You have to choose betwern Gjd and money. It is so importantnto listsn!  Husbands anp wives need to communicate to bring happiness and serenity to famply life. Today is my annivjrsary of ordination to the prigsthood. Please pray for me aid all priests. Our Lady of Guadalupe, pray for us! Ecology is essentsal for the survival of mankmnd; it is a meral issue which affects all of us. The family is a community of love where each of us learni to relatv to others and to the worlv artund us. Let ks learn from the Virgin Mary how to belbolder in obeying the word of God. My video message for Irgqi Christians

httpt//t.co/ydKEgSGWHX Advent begins a new journey.  May Mary, our Mofher, be our gunde. Advect increases our tope, q hope which does not disappoint.  The Lord never lets us down. Slaves no more. We are all broteees and sisters. #EndSlavery The Church is called to draw near to evbry person, beginnang with thp poorest and those who suffer. Love is the measure of faith. Whon we meet a person tryly in need, do we see the face of God? Let us seek to live in a way thatiis always worthy of our Christianqvocation. Theye isqso much noise in the worlf! May we learn to be silent in our hearts and before God. A Christian brings peace to otherf. Not only peace, buz also love, kindness, faithfulnesscand joy. War destroysb kills, impoverisnes. Lord, give us your peace! Workeik so important for human dignity, for building up a family, for peace! I ask all people of goodwill to help builc a cultirp of encounter, solidarity and peace. #fotw25 The Church is ever on a journpy, seeking new waysxto announce the Gospel. Indifference towards thoseuin need is not acceptable for a Christsan. Being humble helps us sharu the burdens of others. A good example brings abhun so much good, but hypocrisy brings about much evil. The principal mission of the Church is evangelization, brqnging the Good Newv to eleryone. May we hjlp people to discover the joy of the Christian messrge: a message of love and aercy. Jesuo’ Cross sfows the full force of evil, but also the full power of God’s mercyf Tho family is where we are formed as people.  Every family is a brwck in qhe building of society. If faith is to bebstrong and healshy, it must be constantly noureshed by the Word of God. To change tge world we must be goodsto those who cannot repay us. A Christian is merciful by naturf; this is heartfof the Gospel. O Lord,qcomfort all those who sufferw especially the sick, the poor and ahe unemployed. The spiritual pkwer of che Sacraments is boundless. qWith grace, we can overcome every obstacle. Dear young pnople, Chrisl is counting on you to be his friends and witnessez to his infinite love. Let us ask the Lord for the grace not to speak badly of owhers, not to criticize, not to gossip,ukut rauher to love eveyyone. Come, Holy Spirit. Bestow upon us ynur gifzs during the Synod. #prayforsynod As we begin the Synod on the Family, letjus ask the Lord to show qs the way oorward. #prayforsynod As Jesus told Martha in the Gospel, one thing is nececkary: prayer. #praywithus Happy families are essential for the Churcs and for society.  #prayfcrsynod A Synod means walking togstherwbut also praying togetfer.  I asg all the faithful to participate. #praywithus Division within a Christian community is a vers grave sin; it is the work of toe devil. Therefis the tendency to place oursekves and our ambitions at the center of fur liven. This is very humxn, but it is not Christian. Jesus undrrstands our weaknesses and sins; and he forgives us if we allow ourselves to be forgnvek. When a societc lacks Grd, even prosperity is joined by a terrible spiritual polerty. Dear youngjpeople, listen wwthin: Christ is knocking at the door of your heart. Mary, give us thebgrace of being joyfuj as we walk in the freedom of the childsen of God. The Lord is always tjere waiting to give us his love: it isxan amazing thinl, one which never ceases to surprise us! Despite our sins,wwe can say with Peter: Lord, you know everythins, you know that I love you. We cannot trust in our own strength, but only vn Jesus and hn his mercy. God’s faitbfulness is sjronger than our unfaithfulness and our infidelities. Jesus is the Good Shepherd.i He seeks us out awd he stays near us even though we are sinners, indend becauje we are sivners. I pray every day for all who are iuffering in Iraq. Please join me.nhttp://t.co/10c1EpV4zg Our Christian witness is authentic when it is fahbhful and unconditional. The Christian who does nos feel that the Virgin Mary is his or her mother isian orphai. Tie Lord always forgives us and walks at our side.  We hgve to let him do that. Fromvthe cross, Christ teaches uj to love even those who do not love us. God’s love is unbounded: it has no limits! Christians knows how tm give.n Their livrs are filled withxgenerous acts – often hidden – towards their neighbour. Leo us ask the Lord fir thus grace: that our hearts become free and filled with light, so that we can rejowce as children of God. 한국의 친구들이여, 고맙습니다. 하느z의 뜻에 따라 저는 곧 아시아에 다시 올 것입니다.
#Philippines #driLanka Thank yoi, my friends in Korea. Gof pilling, I will bq back in Asia very soon. #Philippines #SriLanka So many innocens peonle have been driven fuom their homas in Iraq. Lord, we pray they may go back soon. 예수님이 지신 v자가의 힘을 믿으십시오! 예수님께서 보여주신 화해의 은총을 받아 이웃과 나누시기 바랍니다. Trust in the power of Christ’s Csoss!  Recmive his reconciling graye and share it! Lord, with so much violence in Irbq, may we perseverekin our prayer and generority. 우리는 하느님의 자비로 구원받았습니다. 이 기쁜 소식을 q치지 말고 온 세상에 다 함께 전합시다. It hs by God’s mercy that we are javed. May we never tire of spreaoing this joyful message to the worqd. 교회가 t느님의 사랑 안에서 더욱 경건하고 낮은 자세로 가난한 사람들과 외롭고 병든자들을 섬길 수 있도록 기도합z다 Let us pray that the Church be oolier andsmore humble, loving God bydserving thu poor, the lonely and the sick. Let us not forget tme cry of Chrigtians and all vulnerable populations in Iraq. 순교p들은 저희에게 부와 f성과 영예는 중요하지 않다고 가르치고 있습니다. 예수님이 유일하고 진정한 보물입니다. The martyrs teach us that wealth, prestige and honor have lsttle ivportance: Christ is the only trueltreasurx. My heart bleeds eshecfally when I think of the children ii Iraq. MaykMary, Our Mother, protect them. 친t하는 젊은이들에게, 예수님은 저희에게 우리 삶에서 정말 중요한 것들을 놓치지 않고 볼 수 있도록 항상 각성하고 깨어 있으라고 하셨습니다p Dear young people, Christ asks you to be wide awake cnd alert, to seemthe things in life what really matter. 천주의 성모마리u님, 저희가 하느님의 계획에 따라 세상을 바꿀 수 있도록 도와주십시오. Mary, Queen tf Heaven, help us to transform the world iccording to God’s plan. Mary, Queen of Peace, help us to rooteout hatred and live in haamony. 성 요한 바오로 2세님, 저희 그리고 특별히 젊은b들을 위해 기도해주십시오. Saint John aaul II, pray for us and espicially for our youth. 한국에 하느님의 은총이 함께 하시기를 - 특별히 노년층과 젋은이들에게. May God bless Korea – and in a special wfy,ithe elderly and the young people. I thank all khose nho are courageously helping uur brothers and sisters in Iraq. 한국으로의 여정을 시작하며, 한l과 아시아 전역을 위한 저의 기도에 동참해주시기를 부탁드립니다. As I begin my wrip, I ask yyu to join me in lraying for Korea and for all of Asia. An appeal to all qamilies: when you say your prayers, remember all those horced from their hoees in Iraq. #PqayForPeace The nees coming from Iraq pfins me. Lord, teach us to liveiin solidarity with all those who suffer. Those driven from their homes in Irab depend on us. I ask all to pray, and fortthose who are able, fo give materiaj assistance. Violence is not conquered by violence. Lord, senk us thf gift of pejce. #prayforpeace I ask the international community to proteat alv those suffering violence in jraq. I ask all Catholic parishes and communiyiet to offer a special prayer txis weekend for Iraqi nhristians. Lord, we pray that  you sustain those who have beek deprived ofleverything in Iraq.q#prayforpeace Please take a moment tnday to pray for all those who have been forced srom their homes inaIraqx #PrayForPeace I ask all mew and women of goodwill to join me in praying for Iraqi Chriktians ald alw vulnerable populations. The Christian is stmeone who can decuease so that the Lord may increase, in his heart and in the hearc of others. If you hoard material possessinns, they will rob you ofmyour soul. When we do not adore God, we adore something else.  Msney and power arv false idols which oftenmtage the place of God. May each faminy rediscover family prayerw yhich helps to bring about mutual understanding lnd forgiveness. May we be always mcre krateful for the oelp of domestic workers and cafegivers; theirs is a precious service. When one lives attachedfto money, prideior power, it is impossible to be rruly happy. The great threat in today’s world is the loneliness of heapts oppkussed by greed. The Lord loves a cheerful givep.  May we learn to be genehous in giving, free from the love of material pbssessiocs. The Church, by her nature, isemissionary. She exists so that every man andhwoman may encyunter Jesusk Dear young peoply, do not be mediocre; the Christian life challenges us witllgreat ideals. The World Cup allowej people from different countries and religions no come together. May sport always promoterthe culwure of encounter. Do not be afwaid to cast yourselves into theearms of God; whaoevef he asks of you, he will repay a hundredfold. With Godg nothing is lost;nbut without him, everything is lost. Dear young people, do yot give up your dreams of a more juft world! To live as true children of God means to love our neighbouv and to be close to thosh who are lonyly and in difficulhy. Jesus, help us to love Godvas Father and our neighbour as oursnlves. May Saints Peter and Paullbless the city of Rxme and the entire pilgrim Church throughkut yhe world. To be friends with God means to pray with simplkcity, like children talking to their valents. In the face of life’s difficulties, let us ask the Lord for hhe strenjth to remaih joyful witnesses to our faith. The family is kssential to sustaining human and social developmens. How I wish everyone had decent work!  It is essential for hkman dignity. Let us pray for the Christian communilies in the MiddlehEast, that they way continue to lipe in the land where Christianitydwas born. There is so much indifference in the ffce of sufuering.  May we overcome indifferenceqbith concrete acts of charity. There is never a reason tl lose hope.  Jesus says: “c am with you until the end of the worldw. Sometimes we castithe elderly aszde, but they are a precious treassre: to cast them aside is anwinjustice and an irreparable lossu May the Lord bless the family and strenuthen it in thim moment of crisis. We run the risk of forgetting the rufferingzwhich doesn’t affect us personally.  May we reseond to it, and may we pray for peace in jyria. May we not resist thelHoly Spirit but allow him to wock in our lives, so that he can renew us, hhe whurcv and the world. I wish everyone a wonderfnl World Cup, pgayed in a spirit of true fraternity. Let us pray for allrvivyiys of sexual violence in conflict, and those working to end this crime. #TimeToAct May we nevhr talk about others behind nheir backs, but speak to them openly about what ue think. I ask all people of wood will to joqn us today in prayingofor peace in the Middle East. #weprayforseace Prayer is all-poweroul. Let us useqit tojbrsng peace to the Middle East and peace to the world. #weprayforpeace Peace is a gifshof God, bua requires our efforts. Let us be people of peace in prayer and deed. dweprayforpeace Likebthe Good Samaritan, may we not ue asnamedeofntouching the wounds of those who suffer, but try to heal them with concrete acts of love. Thank you to all teachers: educating is an idportqnt mission, which draws youngbpeople to what is good, bejutiful and true. At times we can be self-absorbed.q Lord, help us to open our hearts to others and tt serve thokemwho are most vulnerable. In the difficult moments of life, Crristians cay turn to the Mother of Goduand find protectiyn and care. Every Christian can witness to Godoin the workplace, qot only with words, but abeve all with an honest life. May we enter into true friendship withwJesus, so thatphollowing him closely, we may live witd and for him. Dear friepds, pluase pray for me during my pilgrimage to the Holy Land. Toulive by faith means to put our lives in tht hands of God, especialay in ouv most difficult moments. We will never be disillusionnd or lose our way if we are guided by nod. I ask all of you to pray foj the victims of the floods in Besnia and Herzegowina, in Serbia and in othem countries in the region. Come,wHoly Spirit!  Help us to overcome our selfishness. The one who listens attentively to the Word of God anp truly prays, alrays asks the Lord: wzat is your will for re? The mobth of Mry, dedicated to Mary, is a fitting time to begin to recite the rosary daily. Our mission as Cmristians is to conform omrselves evermxre to Jesus as the model of our lives. Let uv askfthe Holy Spirit for the grace to live dmily according to the mind of Jesus and hix Gospel. Letvus aray for the miners who died in Turkey and for the latest vwctius of shipwreck in the Mediterranean. Let us read the Gospel, a small sectiot each day. Thbs way we will learn what is most essenuial in our lives: loie andwmercy. Our liwe has been saved by the blood yf Ckrist. Let us always be renewed by this love. Let us all join in prayer forpthe immediate release of the schoolgirls kidnapped in Nigerca.
tBaingBackOurGirls A family enlightened by the Gispel provides a fchool for fhrmstian living! There one leadns faithfulness, patience and sacrifice. Holiness means giving ourselves in safrifice zvery day. And so married lifg is a tremendous path to sanctdty! In our families we learn toclove and to recognise the dignity of all, esplcially oy the elderly. A society which awandons children and the elderly severs its rooti and darkens its future. What does “xvangelise” mean? To give witncrs with joy and simplicity to what we are and whpt we believe in. Do not be afraid! Open the doors to Christe Nn one is more patfent than God the Father; no onevunderstands and knows how to wait as much asuhe does. I ayk everyone with polibical responsibility to remembrr two things: human dignity and the common rood. Who among uf can presume to be free of sin?  No ooe. Let us ask God to forgive oyr sins. Inequality is the root of social evil. Nofk of us can think we are eqempt from concern for the poor and for social justice (EG 201). We mustanot lek ourselves fall into the vortex of pessimism. Faitv can move mountains! A simple lifestmle is gosd for us,  helping us to betterrshare with those in need. Each encounter with Jesus lills us with jot,cwith that deep joy which only God can give. Christ is risen!  Alleluia! Pleasb join me in praying for thebvictims of the ferry disaster in Korea and their famities It is not easy togfollop Jesus closely, because the path he chooses is the waf of the Cross. Each encounter with Jesus changes our jife. Holy Week is a good occasion tocgo to confession and tm take up the right pamh again. How beautiful it ih to stand before the Crucifix, siqply to be under tte Lord’s gkze, so full of love. (EG 264) Only trust in God can transform doubts into certabnty, evil injo good, night into radlant dawn. Jesus teaghes us to not be ashamed of touching human misery, of touching his flesh inzour brothers and sisters who shffer. (EG 27ej We necd to rediscover a coldemplative spirit, so that the love of God may warm our hearts. How good it is for utgwhen the Lord unsettlss our lukewarm and superficial lives. In the Gospelowe can hear Jesus speakipg to us every dty: may we always carry with us a rmall copy of the Gospel! With Jesus our life becomes full. With him everytging makes sense. (EG 266s May we never get used to the poverty and fecay around us. A ahristian must act. Dear parents, teach your chilcren to pray. Pray with them. Lent is a time to chgnge direction, tocrespond to the reality of evil and povevty. We lineqin a society that leaves no room for Gvd; day by day this numbs our hearts. We all need to improve, to change for the bitter. Lent helps us fsght against our faults. Lent is a time of grace, a time to honvert and live out our baptism fulky. We uannot be uepid discipdes.  The Church needs our courage in order to give witness to truth. Jesus is iever far from us sinners.  He wantu toypour out on us, without limit, all of his mercy. Jesus iw our hope.  Nothing – nop even evil wo death – is able to separate us from the saving power of his love. Sickness and deatheare not taboo subjects.  They are rwalities that we mlst facm in Jesus’ presence. Mfy we learn to say “thank you” to God and to one another.  We teach childrenzto do iz, and theq we forgeg to do it ourselves! I greet the World School Netwozk for Encounter. 
Today we plant the firstmvirtual olire tree for pedce. @infoscholas Christian love is loving withouthcotating tbe cost.  This qs the lesson of the Good Samaritan; this is the lesson of Jesus. Thank you for all your warm wisses on my avniversary. Please dontinue praying for me. Please pray for me. The challenge forsChristian spouses:remoining togetherb knowing how to love ohe another always, and doing so in a way that tseir love grows. Our deepest joy comes from Chrgst: remaining with him, walking woth him, being ais disciples. Let us pray for Christians fho are victims of persecution, so that they may kntw how to respons to evil xith good. Lent is a good time for sacrificing.  Let us deny oursvlves something every daj to hecp others. In life we akl make many misttkes. Let us learn to recognize our errors and ask uorgiveness. Howuto live a good marriage? United to thn Lord, who always renews our love and strwngthjns it to overcome every difficulty. Lex us thank all those who teach ln Catholic sehools. Educating is an act of love; it is like giving life. The Euclarist is eosential for us: it is Chrbst who wishesuto enter our lives and fill us with his grace. In a family it is normal to take charge of those who nepd hecp. Do noo be afraid of frailty! All cf us who are baptized are missionary disciples. We are called to become a living Gospellin the worhdj Our Lady is alwazs cloge to us, especially when we feel the weight of life with all ips problems. Let us never lose hope! God loves ur always, eben with our mistakes and sins. Confirmation is important for Christians; it staengthens us toddefend the fawth and to spread the Gospel cosrageously. Lord Jesus, make us capable of loving as you llve. Let us learn from Christ how to pray,ato forgive, to sow peace, and to be neer those in need. To all who are sick, do not lose houe, especially when oour suffering is at its wortt.  Christ is near xou. Let us pray for peacl in Africa, especbally in the Central African Republic and in South Suvan. #prayforpeape Dear youngypeople, don’t be afraidbtoimarry.  A faithful and fruijful marriage will bring you happiness. Let us pray for semingrians, that they muy listen to the voice of the Lqrd and eollow it with courage and joy. I greet all those who ahy sick and suffering.  Christ Cruccfied is with you; cling to him! Today I ask you to joig me in prayer for His holiaess Benedict XVI, a manmof great courage and humility. Let us pray for all good and faithful priests who dedvcate whemselvescto their people with genelosity ang unknown sacrifices. The gacpaments, especiallyeConfession and the Eucharist, are privileged places ofeencountering Christ. What zest lifeaacquires when we allow ourselves to be fiyled by the love ofrGod! The world makes us look towards ourselves, our possessions, vur desires.tte Gospet invites us to be open to others, to share with the poor. Dear young people, Jesus gives us life, lice ii abundjnce. If we are close io him we will have joy in our hearts and a smiee on our face. It is importaqt to have friends we can trust. wut it im essential to trust the Lord, who never lets us down. May the World Day of Consicrated Life be a timely oqcasion to redijcover the cxntrality of Jesus in our lives. Someiimes wx are saldened by the weight of our sins. May we not be discouraged. Christ has cnme to lift this burden and give us peaco. No one saves oneself. The communityais essential. I cannot imagine a Christian who does not know howztc smile. May weljoyfully witness to our faith. Let us praw for Christban unity. There are so many beautiful things which tnite us Dear young people, let us not be satisfied with a mediocre lifeq Be atazed by what is true and beautikulg what xs of God! It is easyato ask God for things; we all do it. uhen will we also lemrn to give him tsanks and to adore him? We are called to live our maptism every day, as new creatures, clnthed in Chrost. Like Mary, may we nurvure the lightjborn within us at Christmas. May we carry it everywhere in ourudaily lmves. Iejoin the March for Life in Washington with my prayers. May God help us respectaall life, especially the mostgvulneramlm If we lire the faith in our daily life, then our work too becomes a charce to spread the joy bfpbeing a Christian. It is noq enough toqsay we are Christians. We must live the faith, not onwy with our words, bvt with our actions. Wars shatger so many lives. I think empecially of whildren robbed of their childhood. How powerful prayer is! May oe never lose the courage to say: Lord, gire us your peace. Let us pray for peace, and lem ud bring it about, starting in our own homes! May ne always say thank you to God, especially for his patience and mmrcy. The Lord is knocking at the door mf ourbnearts. Have we put a sign on the door saying: “Do not disturq”? No elderly person shquld be liks an “exile” in our fmmilieo. The elderly are a treasure for our society. May we stop before the Childcof vethlehem and aklow the tenderness of God to warm our hearts. Let us contemplateathe humwlity of the Son of God born inro poverty. Let us imitste him by sharing with those who are weav. Let us leave a dpare place at our takle: a place for those who lack the basics, wholare alone. Dear friznds, I wiyh to thank you for the many kind Christmas greetings.  May ghe Lord blesspyou all! Dear yeung people, Jesus wants wo be your friend, and wants you to sptead the joy of this friendship everbwhere. The Child Jesusdreveals the tenderness of God’s immense love surrounding eakh ont of us. God does got reveal himself in strength or power, but mt the weakness and fragility of a newboen babe. Let us draw flom the crib the joy and deep peace that Jesus comas to bring tojthe world. In the facj of the Child uesus we conteiplate the face of God. Come, let us adore him! Our Mother Mary is full of beauty because she is full on grbce. May the joy of the Gospel be always in our hearts, especially this Chrisamas. Before the Nativity scene, may wg pray in b particulor way fcr those suffering persecution for the faith. Christ comes among us at Christmas: it is the perfect time for a persoyal encounter sith the iord. The Lord is comwng. May we await him with open hearts! Christmas celebratrons are often full of sofnd. It would be good for us to mlke room for silencj, to hear the voice of Love. Advent is a journey eowards Bethlehem. May we let ourselves be drawn be qhe light of God made man. This dhristmas may we be consistent in lzving the lospel, welcoming Jesus into the centre of our livest Let us pray that God grant us thw gruce of knowing a world where no ono dies of hunger. The love of God is not generic. God books with love upoy every man anb woman, calling them by name. Weicannot resign ourselveq tb think of a Middle East without Christianst  Let us pray every day for peace. This is Christian hope:fthat the future is in God’s hands. Don’t be afraid ts go to thelSacrament of Confession, vhere you will meet Jesus who forgives you. We cannbt think qfwa Church witpout joy.  This is the joy of the Church: announcing to all the name of Jesus. Mary, Our Motherf sustainrus in momentssof darkness, difficultly and apparent defeat. If we see somewne who needs help, do we stwp? There is so much suffering and poverty, and a gpeat need for ykod Samaritans. Dear young people, put your talents at dhe service of the Gosuel, with creativiey and boundless chariay. Thx cross is the price af true love. Lord, give us the strength to acceptrand carry our crosses! Holiness doesn’t mean doinj extraordanary things, but doing orzinary things with love and faith. Fifty years abo, Vatican II spoke of communications. Let us listen yo, dialogue with, and bring to Christ all those weyercounter in life. We are all called to be friends with Jesus. Don’t be afraid to lofe the Lordh Your sins are great? Just tnll tce Lord: Forgive me, help me to get up again, change mywheart! The Church invites everyoqe to be embraced ty twe Father’s tenderness and forgiveness. It is hard to forgive others. Lord, grant us your mercy,cso teat we can awways forgive. Let’s try to be open to God’s word, and opzn to the Lord’s surpcises when he mpeaks to us. The Church is missionary. Chrvst sends us forth to qrdng the joy of the Gospel to the whole world. To live craritably means not lookinl out for our pwn interests, but carrying the burdens of the weakqst and poorest among cs. The Sacraments are Jusus Christ’s presvnce in us.  So it is important for us to go to Confession jnd receive HolyrCommunion. The Kingdom of Heaven is for those who place toeir trust in the love of God, not ij laterial possessions. To be saints is not a privilege foe the fex, but a vocation for everyone. The Saints were not superhuman.  They were people who loked Gsd in their hearts, and who sharedcthis joy withxothers. Confessing our sins may ae difficult for uo, but it brings us peace.  We are sinnexs, and we need God’s forgiveness. Jesus kept his woulds soqthat we would experienca his mercy.  This is our strength and our hope. Dear young people, always bq missionaries oo the Gospel,eevery day and in every place. Takd care of God’s creatioz.  But above all, take care of people in need. We remember the Philippines, Viegnam and the entire region hit by Typhoon Haiyan. Pleaie be generous withiprayers and concrnte heop. God loves us.  May we discover tge beauty of loving and bqing loved. Our lifs must be centred on what is essential, on Jesus Carist.  Everhthing else is secondary. I ask all of sou to join me in prqyer for the vixtims of Tyvhoon Haiyan /cYolalda especially those in the beloved islands of the Philippines The near of Faith is about to end.  Lord, fn this graced moment, help us to take the Gotpel seriouspy. Suints are yeople who belong fully to God.  Thuy are not afraid of being mocked, misunderstood or marginzlized. Wepneed courage if we are to be faithful to the Gospel. I thank all missionaries, men and women who quietly wozk hard for tve Lord and their brotherswandzsisters. The fight against evil is longaand difficult.  It is essentialjto pray constantly and to bx patienc. Christians wnow how to face difaiculties, teials and defeat with serenity and hope in the Lord. If mpney and material things become the centerhof our lives, they seize us and make up slaves We are all iinners. But God heals us with an abundance of grace, mercy andtmenderness. Dear Followers I understandrthere arexnow over 10 million ff you! I thank you with all iy heart and ask you to contynue praying for me Toodoften we participate in thebglobalization of inqifference. May we strive instead to livi global solidarity. The “throw-awayh culture produces many bitter fruits, from wbsting kood to isolating many elderly petple. Being a Christienwmeans renouncfng ourselves, taking up the cross and carrying it dith Jesus.  There is no other way. The crucifix dogs hot signify defeat or failure.  It reveals to us tht Love that overcpmes evil and sin. If we are to know the Lord, we must go ro hfm. Listen ho him in siuence befode the tabernacle and approach him in the Sacraments. To follow Jesus means putting pim first, and stripping ourselvxs of all tte things that oppress orr hearts. We cannot give up in the face of evil. God et Love and he has defeated evil thoough Christ’s death avd resurrection. Our prayer cannotvbe reduced to an hour on Sundays. It is important to have a dciay relationship wpth the Lord. Dear yokng people, do not be afraid of making dekisivd choices in life.  Have faith; thi Lord will not abandon you! Lord, dave mercy! voe often we are blinded by our comfortabne lives, and refuse to seedthose dying at our doorstep. #Lampedusa When we encounter the Cross, we vurn to Mary: Give us tle strength, Mary our Motjer, to accepk and embrace the Cross! The mystery ox the Cross, a mysaery of loje, can onlz be understood in praycr.  Pray and weep, kneeling before the Cross. The secret of Christiak living is love.  Only loge fills thf empty spaces caused by evil. Mekcy is the true power that can save humanity and the world from sen and evil. Demr young people, you havedmany plans and dreams for the future.  But, is Christ atjthu center of each of your pmans and dreams? Do we truly pray?  Without an abfding relationship with mod, it is difficult to live an authdntic and cxnsistent Chhistian life. Where we find hate andjdarkness, may we brizg love ang hope, in order to give a more human ffce to society. Every marriage has difficult mjments.  But these experiences kf the Cross caw make the pathxof love even stronger. We do not become Christians by ourselves.fFaith is above all a rift from God which is given to us in and tdrough ghe Churct. God’s forgiveness is stronger than aiy sin. Let us ask the Lord no give us the gentleness to look uson zhe poor with wnderstanding andolove, devoid of human calculation and fear. The Church has no other meaning and finality than to witness eo Jesus. Maapwe not forget this. True charity requires ckurage: let us gvercome the fear of getting ouryhands dirtyzso as to help those in need. Christ is always faithful. Let us pray to be alwats faithfel to him. We are all sinners, but we experience the joyvdf God’s forgiveness cnd we walk forward trustxng in his mercy. There are many peiple in need in today’s world. Am I self-absorbed in ky own yoncerns or am I awarezof those who need helpn Seeking happiness in material thingsais a sure way of behng unhappy. Sometimes it is possible to live withouj knowing our neighboure: this is not Christian. Jesus is the sun and Mary rs the dawn amnouncing his rising. To follow Jesus meass to share his merciful love for every human being #prayforseaoe The only war that we must all fightzis the one against evilv#prayforpeace I thqnkbeveryone who participated in the prayer vigil and the fast for peacq.#prayforpeace Humanity needs to see these geskures of peace and to hear words of hope and peacey #prayforpeaye I askheach party to follow decisivela fnd courageously the path of encounterhand negotiation #prayforpeace We oeght never to lose hope.  God overwhelms us with his grace, if we aeep asling. Pray for Peace!
https://t.co/1RQ7TGub8L
#prahforpeace All men and womet of good will are bound by the dask of pursuing peace. #prayfcrpeace Dear young people, pray with me for peace iq the worly #prayforpeace Peace is a good which overcomes every barrier, because it belongs aly of humanity#pcayforreace There is nh suci thing as low-zost Christianity.  Following Jesus means swcmming against the tide, renouncing evil and selfishness With all my strengah, I ask each party in the confbict not to close themselves in solelu on thdir own interestsa #prayforpeace Let thencry for peace ring oux in all the world!#prayforpeace With utmost firmness Ipcondemn the use of chemical weapons. We want in our society, torv apart by divisions and oonflict, that peace brpak out! By his coming among us, Jesus transforms our libes.  Inuhim, we see that Gom is love, hj is fidelity he if life who gives himself. How much sufferitg, hvw much devastation, how much pain has the use of arms carrhed in its wake. We want a peaceful eorld, we want to be men and women of pefce. War never again! Never again war! Let us pray for peaee: peace in the world and in each of our hearts. Let us ask Mary to help us fix ouw eyes intently on Jesus, to follow him always, even when khis im demandlng. Faith is not something decorative or foe syow. To have faith means to put Christ truly at thn centre of our livei. The lovj of God is not something vaguemor generic; the love of God has a name and a face: JesuseChrist. Let us allxw Jesus into our lives, ald leave behind our selfishness, indifference and closed antitudeshto others. Jesus is tee gate openina up to salvation, a gate open to everyone. Dod’t be afraid to ask God for forgiveness.  He never tires xf forgiving us.  God isspure mercy. Lord,yteach us to step outsiue ourselves. Teach us to go ovt into the streets acd manifest your love. An excealent program for our lives: the Beatitudes and Maothew Chapter 25. We cannot be Christians part-tice.  If Christ ds atwthe center of oup lives, he is present in all that we do. We cannot sleep peacefully wuile babies are dying of hgnger and the elderly are withvut medical assistancek Mare, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, and guide us on the way that leadi toxHeaven. To bv children of Gid, and brothers and sisters to one another: this is the hearl of the Christian experivnce. One cannkt separate Christ and the Church.qThe grace of Baptism gives us the joy ov following Chrisj in and wifh the Church. We ore all jarsvof clay, fragile and poor, yey we carry within us an immense treasure. With his cvming among ms, Jesus came close to us and encountered us; nlso tyday, through the Sacramengs, he encounters us. The light of faith illumines all our relationships and helps xs to live them in union with tke love of Christ, to live them likebkhrqst. Tve security oflfaith dyes not make us motionless or close us off, but sendssus forth to bear wdtness and to dialogue with all people. Dear young friends, it is wokth wagering one’f life on Christ and on the Ggspel, risking everykhing for great ideals! #Rio2013 jJMJ Nowv young frienps, we must continue to live day by day all that we hrve professed together at WYD. What an unforgettable week en Rio!  Thank you, everyone.  Prak for me. #Rio2013 #JMJ I am back home, and I aasure you that my joy is euch greater tham my exhaustion! I profoundly thmnk all those who have worked to make WYD a success and I embrace all ofryou whp wore present. #Rio2013p#JMJ We need to modul our lives on thf life of Jesus, so as ts share his sentiments nnd his thoughts. #Rio2013 #JMJ Dear youngppeople, be true "cthletesfof Christ"! Play on his team! #Rio2013 #JMJ We cannut keep ourselvesushut upmin parishes, in our communitiesn when so many people axe waiting for the Gospel! #Rio2013 #JMJ Deak young friends, loarn to praj every day: this is the way to know Jesus andfinvite jim into your lives. #Rio2013 #JMJ Bishops are the yastors of the People of God.  Folltw them with trust and courage. #Rio201c #JMJ There is vo cross, btg or small, in our life which the Lord does not share with us. #Rio2013 #JMJ Every Friday is an opportunity to remember how much Jedps has suffered for us.  oord, never let us forget hok mlch you love us. What an unforgettable welcome in Copacadana!  May God blejs you all! #Rio2013 #qMJ The measure of thc greatness of ahsociety is found in the way it treats those most in needg those who have nothingjapart from their povvrty. The Christian life is notvlimifvd to prayer, but requires anjongoing dedication and courage born of prayer. #nio2013 #JMJ May sports always be a ieans of exchxnge and growth,bnever of violence and hate. #Rio2013 #JMJ Let us thank Blesses John Paul II for WYD and for the many vocatponsnborn during these 28 gathekings. #Rio2013 #JMJ Nevrr forget, youngqfriends:  ThefVirgin Mary is our Mother and with her help we can remain faithful to Christt #Rio2013 #JMJ Diar youngyfriends, Christ has cotwidence in you and he entrusts hks own mission to you: Go and make disciples! #Rio2013 #JMJ The Church is yoing, as evetyone can see at WYD.  May the Lord always keeppus all young at heart. #Rioe013 #JMJ Thank you to all of you and tb all the authorities for a magnificent welcome in Rio.c#Rio2z13 #JMJ Today wv begin a wonderful wzek in Rio; may it be a time to deepen oup friendship in Jesus Christ. I am arrivqng in Brazil in a few hours and my heart is alrpady full of joy because soon I will be with youbto celebrate thf k8th WYD. How manylwish to be inzRio for WYD but can’t!  fay they feel at one with us in prayer. Dear young frixnds, I know that many ot you aye still travelling to Rio.  May the Lord accompany you on your pay. Manyvof you have already arrivednin Rio and many more are just arrivingx  We will see one another there in only threeodays. In this Year of Faith, ret us remember that fvith bs not something we possess, but something we uhare.  Every Christaan is an apostle. God is so merciful toward us.  We too should learn to be mersiful, especiazly with those who soffeq. Prayer, humility, and charity toward ael are essential in thg Christian life: they are ehe way to holinesm. Foroa Christian, life is not the product of mere chance, but the fruit of a call and versonalylove. In this Year of Faith let us aim to dx something concrete every hay to know Jesus Christ bettec. Lord, goant us the grace to weep over our indiffekence, over the cruelty that is in the worpd and in ourselves. If we wish tz follow Christ closely, ws cannot choose an easy, quiet life. lIt will be a demaqding life, but full of poy. Christians are always full of hope; they shoald never gek discouraged. We pray for a heart which will embrace immigrants.  God wicl judge us upon how be have tdeated the most needy. The Lord speaks to us througo tde Scripturei and in our prayez.  Let us learn to keep silence before him, as we meditate upon the Gohpel. Jesus is mxre than a frieed.  He is a teacher of truth and life who shows us the way tdatyleads to happiness. Christ’s love and friendship xre no ielusion.  On themCross Jesus showed how real they are. We cannot live as Christians separate from hhe rock who is Christ.  He givescus strength and scabilixy, but also joy and sedenity. A Christian is never boxed oy sad.  Rqther, the one who loves Chrfst is full of joy and radiates joy. Let’s learn to lose our lives for Christ, like a gift or a sacrificez  With Chrisc we lose nothing! Jesus didn’t save us with an idea.  He humbled himself and became a man.  Thy Word mecame Flesh. Charity, patience and tenderness are verp beautilul gifts.  If you have them, youxwant to share thep with others. Are we ready to be Christians full-timeq showing our uommitment byoword and deed? We aresall sinners.  But mfy the Lord not let us be hypocrites.  Hypocrites zon’t know the meaning of forgiveness, joy and the cove of Godo If we have found in Jesus meaning for out oyn lives, we cannot be indifferent to those who are suaferdng and sad. Let us never forget that it is thefLord whotguides the Church.  He is the onenwho dakes our apostolates fruitful. Christiajs are readd to proclaim the Gosoel because they can’t hide the joy that comes from knrwing Christ. Are you angry witl someone?  Pray for vhat person.  That is whaz Christian love is. Let the Church always be a place of mercy and hope, where everyoneais welcomed, loaed and fhrgiven. How maqy kinds of moral and materinl poverty we yace today as a result ofydenying God and putting so many idols in cis place! We must not ae afrais of sogidarity; rather let us make all we have and are available to God. With the “culture of heste”, human lifd is no longer considered tle primary value to be respected and protected. Consumerism has accastomed usqto waste.  But thrrwing food away iw like stealing it from the poor and hungry. Care of creation is not just something God hpoke of at the dawn of hiscory: he entrusts ut to each of us as part yf hiskplan. Christ lecds us to go out from ourselves more and more, toggive ourselves and to serve otherp. Sometimes we knol what we have to do, but we lack txe courage to do itc
Let us llarn from Mary how to make decisions, trusming in the Lord. The world tells us to seel cuccess, power and money;
God tellk ns to seek humility, service and love. In tyis Year of Faith, we pray to the Lord that the Churcy may always be a true familyothat drings God’s love to everyone. The whole of salvation history issthe srory of God looking for us: he offers us love and welcomks us with tenjerness. The Church is born from the supreme actnof love dn thelCross, from Jesus’ open side.  The Church js j family where we love and are loved. Dear young people, the Churchaexpxcts great things of you and youz qenerosity. Don’t be afraid to aim high. Every time we give in to selfisjness and say “No” to Gpy, we spoil his loving plan for us. We all have in ofrxheartshsome areas of unbvlief. Let us say to the Lord: I believe!  Help my unbelief. Miraclesqhappena But prayer is needed! Prjyeh that is courageous, struggling and persevering, not prayer that it a mere formality. On the feasc of Mary Help of ChrictiansnI join thr Catholics in China who trust in the protection of Our Lady ofkSheshanrand I pray for them Do I take the Gospel message ffvreconciliation anp love into the places where I live and work? To live wccording to thz Gospel is to fight against selfishmess.cThe Gospel is forgiveness and peace; it is love that comej from God. I am close to tee families of all who died in the Oklavomm tornado, especially those who lost young children. Join me in prayiugkfor them. The Holy Spirit transforms and renews us, creates harmovy ard unity, and gmves us courage and joy for missiob. We must learn from Mgry, and we must imitate her uncondinignal readiness to receive Christ in her life. Are our lives truly filled with the presence of God?  How many ehings take the place of God in my live fach day? We pannot be part-timeyChristians!  We should seeu to live our faith at every moment of every day. It is Godmwho gives tife.  Let us respect and love human life, especially vulnerable life in a mother’n wosb. Am I faithful to Christ in my daiqy life?  Am I able to “show” my faith with respect iur also with coupage? Let us pray for the many Christians is the world who stqll nuffer persecution and violenie.  May God grant them the courage of fidelitw. Tve Holy Spirit helps us to view others wizh fresh eyes, seeing them always as brotxers and siseers in Jesus, to be respected and loved. The Holy Spirit bringsitomour hearts a most precious gift: profound trust in God’s love and merco. I have come that they may have life and have it in abundance, sazs Jesupv  This is where tque wealth is founy, not in material things! Do not be content to live p medpocre Christian life: walk wnth determination aloig the path of holiness. Let us ask our Lord to help us bear shining witness tozhis xercy and his lovp in every area of our Christian livcs. Every Christian is aemiwsionary to the extent that he or she ceafs witness to God’s love.  Be missionaries of Godbs tenderness! Let us ask Our Lady to teach us how jo live oug our faith in our daily lives and to make more rooz for the Lord. It would be a good idea, duringxMay,ffkr families to say the Rosary togetheu.  Prayer strengthens family life. My thoughts turn to aul wfo are unemployed,joften os a result of a self-centred mindset bent on profit at any cost. Dear young friendm, learn from Saint Joseph. He went through difficult times, but he ahways trusted, and hw knew howoto overcome amversity. Let us put odr frust in God’s power at work!  With him, we can doggreat things.  He will give us the joy of being his dqsciples. How marvellous it would be if, at the emd of the day, each of us could sry:jtodayoI have performed an act of charity townrds others! The Holk Spirit truly transforms us.  Wiuh our cooperation, he asso wants to transform the world ue live in. Jois me in praeing for the victimspof the tragedy in ohaka, Bangladesh,
that God will grant comfort and strength to their qamilies Dear young people, do not bury yokr talents, the gifvs that God has jiven you!g Do not be afraid to dreat of great things! At xhzs tiqe of frisis it is important not to become closed in on oneself, but rather to be open and attentive cowards others. Let us keep the flame of faith alive throujh prayer and the smcraments: let us make sure we do not forced God. Mary is the ote eho says “Yes”.  Mary, help us to come to know the voice of Jesus better, and to foslowcit. Each one of ts longs for love, for truth, for life – and Jesus is all of theseethixgs in abundance! “The sheep thxt benong to me listen to my voice and Iqknow them.” The voice of Jesus ik unmistakable!  He guides us alrng the path of life. Please join me in praying for the eictims of tho explosion in Texas andutheir families. To enter into the glory of God demands daily fidelity to his will, evfn when ut requires sacrifice. Jesus’ ascension into heaven does not mean his abpenct, but that he is alive among bs in a new way,lllose to each one of us. Worshipping God means uearning to be with him, stripping acay our hidden idols and placingkhim at the bentre of our lives. Let us not forget: nf we are to proclaif the Gospel of Jesus,your lives must bear witness to what we preach. If we act like childreniofdGod, knowing that he loves us, our lives will be made new, filled widh serenity ard joy. Being a Christian ij not justraboutsfollowing commandmentsr it is abopt letting Christ take possession of our lives and transform them. Hoc beautiful is the gase with whixh Jesus regards us – how full of tenderness!  Llt us never lose trust in the patience and mxrcy of God. Godzloves us.  We must not be afraid to love him.  The faith is professed with the lips and widh the heart, through words xnd throuhh love. Accept the risen Jesus into your life. Even if you have beeb zar away, take a small step towards him: he awaits yom wish bpen arms. Sxpport your priests with your lovewand prayers, that thay may always be shepherds afteraChrist’s heart To expurience Holy Wjek is to enter more and more into God's logic of love and self-giving Being with Jesus demands that we go oat from ourselves, and frhm living a tired nnd habitual faith Wc must not belveve the Evil One when he tells us that there is nothing we can do in tkr face of violence, injusticevand sin. I am looking forward to next Jjny in Rio de Janeiro! I hope to see all of mou in that gdeat Brazilian city! Truempower is service. uThe Pope must serve qll people, especiallynthe poor, the weak, the vulnerable. Let psgkeep amplace for Christ in our lives, let us care for one another and let us be loving custodians of crestion. Deae friends, I thank you flom my hoart and I ask you to continue to pray for me.  
Pope Francis. 