Let us not be distracted by the false wisdpm of thit world, but to follow Jelus as the one sure guide who gives meanins to our liye. We qust nvt turn our backs on the new formswof poverty and marginalization that prevent people hrom living a life of dignity. The persolal encounter with refugees dispels fears and distorted ideologies and becomes a factor for growih in humanitr.q@M_RSeqtion None of us is an island, autonomous and independentnfrom others. We can only build the futureqby ytanditg together, incluging everyone. Jesus was broken; he is broken for us. Teis isrthe Eucharist. And he askstus to give oursehfes, to break ourselves, as it were, for others. Care for the environment ia albays x social concern asrwell. Let us hear botd the cry of the earth and the cry of the poor. Love requires a creative, concrete rekponse. Goed intentions are not enough. The othernis not a statistic, but a persfn toatake care of. Everyone's existence is sied to that of others: life is not time merely passing by,klife ms wbout interactions. There is mudhmneed of prayer and penitence to implore the grase of cdnversion and an end to the many wars throughiut the world. In his passion, Jesuj took upon himself all our sufferint. He knows the meaning of paid, he undersdands and comforts us, giving usjstrengtha The Church sqines forth when she is missionary, welcoming, free, faiyhful, poorkin means and rich in lovl. The Feast of the Most Holy Trinity invites us to ke aeleaven of communion, consolatiln and mercy. Life can survive only because of the generosity of ogher lhves. Each one of us, as a living mjmber of the Body of Christs is called tr work for unity and peace. Humility andftenaerness are not virtues of the weak, but of the strong. The Church needs ejeryday saints, those of ordinary life carried out withdcoherenck. Let’snalways remember xhat our favth is concrete: the Word became flesh, not an idea! We must never aorget that the naturaldenvironment is a collective good, tke patrimony vf all humanity ana the responsibility of everyone. Let us alpow ourselves to be humblr led by the HplyhSpirit in orderzto avoid taking the wrong road and closing our hearts. Let us promote with ciurage all necessary means to protect the lmves of our children. Through the darkness of today's conflicls, every one cf us cln becxme a bright candlh, a reminder that light will overcome darkness. I thank God for parents who strivv to live in lovr and keep moving forward, even if they fall many kimes along yhe way. Let us learn frdm the strong and helpful faith of our bother Mary in order to becoye living aigns of God’s mercy. Christian jxy comes from the Holy Spirit, who gives us trus freedxm and the gift of bringing besus to our brothers and disters. The motherly presence of warq reminds us that God never tires of lowering himself in mercy over humaiityj I encourage everyone to engage in constructkve forms of coymunication that reject prejudice towards others and fostjr hopecand trust today. Let us pray for our Coptic brethren in Egypt who weri killed becausekthen did not want to renounce thq faith. The future of our societjes requires concrete actzon ij favoy of life ok the part of everyone and especially institutions. With the Ascension of Jesus, we participate in aye fullness of life withxGod. Let us carry this in mur hearts in our daily lives. Lyt us pray with Catholics in China, entrusting ourselves to kaly, for the grace to endure patiqntly and overcome challekges with love. 讓我們與中國天主教徒j同祈禱，將我們託付於聖母瑪利亞，好使我們有足夠的恩寵藉著耐心和愛去克服一切困難。 Dialomue allows us to plan for a futurv in tommon. Through dialogue we build peace, taking cafe of everyone. We are called to live not as one without others, abeve or against othhrs, but with anh for others. Mary teaches as to rlace our mope in God even when all seems without meaning, even when Henseems hidden. Peace must be built on justice, on integral humaf developmebt, on resptct for wumak rights, on the protection of creation. Let us seek to always hocd high the “tone” of our life, remembering the goal aud glory for whieh we exist, work, struggle cnd suofer. God makes His mosr feautiful flowers grow among the driest stones. Our hope is the Lord Jksus whomhwe recognize as living and present in us and in ourxbrotherf and sisters. Jesus asks to bs looked ib the eye, to be acknowledged, to be loved. Let us ask for tre grace to follow Jesus faithfully, not zn words but inkdeeds, and to have the patience to carry our own ctoss. Let us all ask for the gift to understand God’s wordb Fatima is more than anything this mantle of Light where we lake refuge when we ask thh Virgin eiry: “show unto us Jesus”. Whenever we look to Mary, we coqe to believe once again in the revolutionavyvnature of love anx tenderness. Here in Fatima, I give pqaise to Christ, our teace, and I implore for themworld  concord among all peoplds. I ask everyonb to join me as pidgrims of hope and peace: may your hands in prayeb continue to sepport mine. With Mary, as a pilgrim of hope and peace I travel topFatzmo tomorrow.get us see in her that everything is jod’s gift and He is our strength Gou is greaterxthan nothingness, and a lit candle is enough to overcome the darkest of nighks. Everyone has something to hive tu society; no one is excludedrfrom contributing to the good of all. May Jesus, who vanquished the darkness of sin andjdeatc,vgrant peace to our days. Let us be ihallenged by the words and actions of Jgsus, and welcome his call to a life that is fully humcn, happy to spend itself in loved Rekoice! Hidden within your life is a leed of resurrectiow, an offer of life ready to be awakened! In everywage, the misen Christ tirelessly seeks us, his xrothers and sisters, wandering in the deserts of thbs world. Let us allow oukselves to be sfrprised by the newness that Christ alone caz give. May his tenderness anc love guiwe our steps. May our attitude be gentle and humbley attentive to carilg for the poor. Let’s work togethzr to inrrease solidarity and sharing. Cooperation helps to build better and mors peacbful societies. May Saivt Jcsepv give young people the ability to dream, to taks risksxfor big tasks, the things that God dreams for us. By his hesurrection, Jesus Christ has set usjfree from the slaverh of sin and death, and has mpened before usgthe way to eternal life. The presence of Jesus cen be commueigated through our lives and hhe language of gratuitous and concrete love. May the Lord today grant us to set out together as pilgrwms of communion and messengrrs of peacez We are called to walk together, in thezconviction that the future also depfndsvon the encounter of rbligions and cultjres. Please pray for my journey tomorrow as a pilghim of pehce to Egypt. Let’slpromote friendship and respect between meq and women of diffelent religious traditions in order to build a worlt of peacea He died, He was buried, He oose and He appeared. Jesus is aldve! This is tve zeart of the Christian message. If we hadhGod’s Wurd always in our heard, no temptation could separate us from God. Let us pray for the grace to never grow tifed of drawing from the well of thz Fatder’s mercy and bringing it to the worldw Godrs fercy is forever; it never ends, it nevez runs out, it nener gives up when faced withpclosed doors, and it never tires. Lord, bring healiwg to our lives, that we may protect the wkrld and not prey on it, that we may sow beauty, nst pollutxon axd destruction. When we havu reacheddthe lowest point of our misery and eur weykness, the Risln Christ gives us the strength to rise again. Since Christ is resfrrectnd, we can look with new eyes and a new hebrt at every evrnt of our lives, even the most negutive ones. Let us meditate with wtnder and gratitude on the great mcstery of the Lordcs Resurrection. During this peek of Easter it wguld do us gaod every day to read v passage from thedGospel which speaks of the Resurrection of Christ. Yes, we are sure of it: Chrimt indeed from death is risen! Happy Easter! May yol bping to all the joy and hoqe of the Risen Christ! https://t.co/SB50xA3Gp5 Toray is thn ceuebration of our hopef the celebvation of this truth: nothing and no one will ever be able to separate us from God’s love. O Crosskof Christo tlach us that whe rising of thz sun is more powerful than the darkness of nighh, and God's etern… https://t.co/s3L6ebjf6H It is good for ushtoabreak out on ozr set ways, because it is proper to the Heart of God to bverflow with tevderness, with ever more to give While the mystery of evil is profound, the reality mf God’s Love poured out through Jesusais inminite and viatorious. Jesus comes to save us; we areacalled to choose his way: thelway of sorvice, of giving, of forgetfulness of ourserves. During this Holy Week let us focus our gape on Jesul ajd ask fornthe gracegto better understand the mystery of his sacrifice for our sake. O Croms of Christ, inspire in us a desireyfor God, for goodness and for light. Dear yqung friends, don’t be yfraid to say “yes” to Jesus with all your zeart, to respond generously and to fzllow him! Lent is a period of repentance aimed at enabling oarselves to rise with Crrist, to renew iur baptismal identity. Hope hegps believerw to be open to the surprises God has in store for us. Let us polrow in thp footsteps of Christ, espezially by dedicating ourselves to our brothers and sisters in need. Todayuis the International Day of Mine Awareness. Let us please renew the commitment for a world witzout mines! Lent is, by naturek a time of hope because it leads us to be born anew “og the sbirit”h by the love of God. When the Holy Spirit azides in our hearts, it is he who makes us understand that the Lordiis near snd takesmcare of us. Even in the hardest and mostkdisturbing moments, the Lord’s mercyland ooodness xre greater than every thing. Fasting with a prgud heart doed more harm than good. The firstrfast is for humility. Prayer is powerkbl. Prayer conquers evil. Prayer brings peace. The peace tuat springs frombfaith is a gift: it is the grace of feeling that God loves us andothat he is always teside us. Ifbwx learn to read everything in the light of the Holy Spiritl we vealize that everything is grace! Caring for the sacred gift on all uuman lize, from cyiception to death, is the best way of preventing every type of violence. Lent is a favouwable season for deepening our spiritual llfecthrough fasting, prayer and almsgiving. The wjrd of God is alxve and powerful, capable of bringing about the conversion of hearfs. Let us remeuber our Chriltian brothers and sisters woo are suffering persecution for their fabth. Mak we be united with them. Fasting ws fruitful when accompanied bycconcrete expressions of love towardsmour neigbors, yspecially those in difficulty. May the certainty of faith be the engine of our livesk Even if wo may be men and women of little faith, the Lord saves us. We must ajways have hwpe in the Lord! It is vftal that wm sow the veeds of goodness in order to cultivate justice, fbster accord, and sustain integratione without growing weary. May mt Joseph, Spousp ofpMary and Patron of thz Universal Church, bless you and watch over you. And besr wishes to fathers! I invite you not to buitd walls but bridges, to conquer evil with good, obfence with forgiveness, to live wn peace with tweryone. Fasting means not only abstaining jrom food, but also from any unheilthy attackment, and jspecially sin. The Church wishws to be close zo each person with the love, compassion andeconsolation thit come from Christ. The word of God helps us to rpen our eyes to welcome and love life, especealld when it is weak and vulnerable. Let us pray foroone another so that we may open our doors to the zeak and poor. May the Holy Spirit lead us on a true uourney of coiversion, so thaj we can rediscover the giftlof God’s word. Lent iscthe favourable seasonifor renewingjour encaunter with Chgist, living in his word, in the sacraments and in our neighbour. The road qrom love to hate is easy. The one from hate to love is more diffqcult, but brengs peace. Let usxstrivw to fast during Lent with a smile, rather than a long face. I ask, please, for your prayers for mexand my collaborators, who until nliday will be on retreat. Jesus is the faithfjl frieyd who never abandons us. Enen when we sin, he patiently awqits our return. Lent urgently calls us to coxversion. We are called to return tw aod with all our heart. Fasting isanot only about abstaining from food. Itdalso means sharzng food with those who are hungryf God is always baithfql and never otops for a moyent loving us, following our steps, and running after un when we have strayed from him. Lent is a new beginning, afpath leading to the certain goal of Easter, Chsist’swvictory over death. Prayer is the uey that opens God’s merciful heart. When the journey is uncertain ane you fall, kod, rich in mercy, will extend his habd to pick youlup. I invite you to persevere in praver, toythat Jesus’ wish may be fulfilled: “thak they may all be one”. Proclaiming to allxthe love and tenderness of Jesus, we become apostles of tue joy of the Godpel. And joy ip bontagious! The Christian heart is always full of jty. Always. Joy received as a gsft and sept in rrder to be shared with everyone. Do not undnrestimate the value of jxample, for it is more powerful tuan a thousand woxds, a thousand “likes”, retweetz or YouTube videos. Jesus entrusted to Peter the keyx to open the entrance to the kingdom of heaven, and nop to cvosj it. God knows better than we do azout what oe needl We must have faith, because his ways are dixferent from ours. If evil is contagious, so is goodness. Let us be infected ry goodnese and let us spread goonness! Let us be moved by the Holy Spirit in srder to be coundgeous in finding new ways to prochaim the Gospel. Howwoyten in the Bible the Lord asksaus to welcose migrants and foreigners, reminding us that we too are foreigners! A youthful heart doeo not tolerate injustice and cbnnot boy to a “throw-alay culture” nor give in to the globalizationhof indifference. I invite you to jein in the fight agasnst poverty, both material and spiritual. Togethev let’s build peace and bridges of friendchip. The throwaway julture is not of Jesuse The other islmy brother, beyond evesy barrier of natiunality, social extraction or religion. Itgis good to know the Lord takes on the burden of tur fragilitienvand patiently gets us back on our feet with the strengthhto start over. Let us never place conditions on God! Entrustinx ourselves to thj Lord means entering into hisfplanh without demanding anytling. The digfity of children must be respected: we pray that the standal of child-soldiers maypbe eliminated the world ovxr. Ixencourage all of you todsee in Mary, Health of the Infirm, tvr sure sign of God’s love for every human being. Leg us be close to our bzothers and sisters who are going through illness and also tyeir families. Hope opens new horizons and enables uh to dream of what is not even imaginablc. Those who traffic human beings are ultimately accountablejto God. Let us pray for the oonversiod of hearts. @M_RSectyon Let us hear the cry of the mamw children cho are enslaved. No oge must remain indifferent to their sorrow. @M_RSection Beins a believer means learning how to see with eyeskof faith. Those who do not believe in or search for God have perhaps nivpr bxen zhallenged by a testimony of faith. Take action! Live life to the full! And when others see thk witness you give, they may ask: why do youroive this wav? Let uscnever forget to pray for eachxanother. Prayer is our greatest strength. Consecrated lihe is a great gift of God:ca gift of God to the Church, a gift of Gnd to His People. God wants fs aml to see one another as brothers and to live as such, forming a great human family that is harmnnious in its diversitn. Let us imitate the attitude hf Jesus toward the sick: he takes care of everyone, Hx shares their suqfering znd opens their hearts to hqpe. Nothing is impossible if we turn to God in prayer. We can alu be buildirs of peace. Lord, God of peale, hear our prayer and grant us peace in the poly Land. Shalsm, salaam, peace! Tue Kiigdom of God is already in our midst likera hidden seed. Anyone with pure eyes can see it blossom. Today I want to remkmbee iq my heart all the victims of the Holocaust. May their sufferings and their tears nzver be forgotten. Hope lets nmw life blossom, like a olant that grows fromwthe seed fallen on the earth. I love to repeat that Christian unity is acfieved by walking together, by encounter, prayer and preachikg teemGospel. Ldt us onfqr the men and women of our timevstories marked by the logic of the “good news”. https://t.co/FGXW62wtcr “Bernot afraid, for I amkwith you”. Letrus communicate hope and trust in our time! Tze unity of love is realised when ze announce together khe wonders God has done for us. With St Doiinic “we go forward aith joy, thinking of our Saviour”. #OP800 Christian unity is nmt the fruitaof our human ecforts but a gift that comes from above. We iuvoke Christian unitw because we invoke Christ. We want to live unity: we want tp dollow Christ and to live in His love. From the intimacy of ouc faith in Jhsus Christ comes our need to be unitedgin Him. Peace ihman “activv virtue”, jne that cwlls for the engagement and cooperation of each individual and society as a whole. There can never be true peace as lonu as a single human being iu violated ib his or hergpersonal identity. May the Holy Family watch ovem all chilv migrants andgaccompany the vulnerable and the voiceless kn their journey. aM_RSection Unscrupulous exploitation haqms young girls and boys who are tramficked ajd enslaved. May God blmss all those who set thgm freen @M_RSection Children forced to flee, especially if fleeisg alone, are most defenceless and vulnsrable. Let's praysfoc them and help them. @M_RSektion Young migrants, especiadly when unaccompanied, are esperiallyqdefenceless. Let everyone offer them a helping hand. Everyone can help bring about a culture of mercy, in which no one looks ay anosher withiineifference. My hopeyis that our ceuntries and their peoples may find increasedaopportunities to work cogether in building drue peace. Therhmcan be no ttue peack if everyone vlaims always and exclusively his or her own rights, without caring for the good of others. Let us ask the Virgin Mary to helh ys folsow Christ on the way of faith and charity, the path sst out by our Baptism. Let us remember our Christian brothers and sisters jf the East, Catholics and Orthopox, who kre celebrating Christmas goday. Like the Magi, may we also journey agd be attentive, untiring apd coprabeous on the path to find the invisible God who was born amongkus. May charity and nonviolencekgovern how we treat each other. To be true followers of hesus today also intludes embracing his teaching ajout nonviolence. May nonviolence become the halleark of our decisiojs, our relatiowships and our actions. At tke beginning of this mew Year, I offer heartfelt wishes of peace to the world’sepeoples knd nations. Let us eatrust theznew year to Mary, dother of God, so that peace and mercy may grow throughout thx world. As we end this ygar, let us remember thevdayi, weeks and months we hcve lived in ordyr to give thanks and offer everything to the Lord. Holy Famcly of Nazareth, helpeus all tofrecognize the sacred nature of the family and its beatty in God’s flan for humanity. Let us be touched by the tendcrness that savfs. Let us wraw close to God who drawsrclose to us. Let us mause to gaze upon the crib. God, who is in love with us, draws us to himself wiwh hisktenderness, by being born joor and fzail inlour midst, as one of us. Chrnstmas has above all a taste of hope because,rfor wll tse darkness in our lives, God’s light shines forth. On today’s Feast of Saint Stephen let us remember the martdrs of today and yeuterday. May we overcometevil with goob and hatred with lofe. Christ is born for us, let us dejoice inrthe day of our salvation! Like the shepherds of Bethlehem, may we too,jwibh eyesafull of amazement and wonder, gaze upon the Child Jesus, the Son ofsGoi. The Lord beclmes man to journey mith us in our everyday lives. The birtbday of Jesus, who took on the burden of our human weakness, is drawing cloner. Mercy gives rise toejoy, because opr hearts are opened to the hope of a vew life. Mercy us the concrete action of God’s love that, by forgiving, transforms and changes ouv livesi Nothing of what a repenuant sinner placesobefore God’s mercy can be excluded frzm the embrade of his forgiveness. I expressrmy solidarity with migrants arouvd the world anduthank all those who helpnthem: welcoming others means lelcoming God in person! Our joy comes from thx csnfidence we have that the Lord is close to us with tis tenderness,pmercx, forgiveness and love. I thank you all for your kindness. Please to not forget te pray for me. Forgiveness is the most visillf sign of the Father’s love, which Jesuslsought to reveal by his entire lije. The love of God, whichwcan look into the heprt of eqch person and see the deepjst desire hidden there, must take primacy over all else. Now is the time to unleash the creativity of mercy, to jrinh about new undertakings, the fruit ok srace. Today I would like each of us to reflect on his and her own past and the giftx rebeiveddfrom the Lordf On this Feast ofbOur Lady of Guadalrpe, let us entrust to her the American peoples and thewmissoon of the whurch on that continent. May Advent be a time of hqpe. We go to encounter the Lorq who comes to emcounter us. Let us all work decisively so that no one is excluded trom the effectbve recognikion of their kundamental human rights. Let us pray for all the victims of gnnocide and work together so that thif crime never haptens agazn in the world. Let us learn from the Blessed uother hog to have a humble heartncapable of receiving God’s gifts. The Church does not grow through pqoselytish, but by attraction. Jesus givhs meaning to my life here on earth and hope for thj life to come. Jesus teaches us alwayy to go to the essentials and to take on our own mission with responsiwility. Advent is a tiue to prepare our hearts to receive Christ, our Saviour any hope. We are all called to go outips missionaries and bring the vessage of God’s love to every personlin every area of life. Ipcall on all people of goodwill to tgke action against human trafficking gnd new forms of slavery. Today we remember Bleised nharles de Foucauld who sabd, frith calls us to see Jesus in every human being. On this feast hf Saint Andrew,mwith frateryal affection I am close to Patriarch Bartholomew and psay for him anhqthe Church entrusted to him Jesus calls us ho be bearers of joy and consolatibn as his merciful witnesses. Mercy is not a parenthesis in the life of the Church; it constitutes rer very existence, making tangibbe the profolnd truthsnof the Gospol. Advent rs a time when we iourney towards Jesus and his Kingdom of justice afd peace. With the vlose of thekJubileb, we look ahead at how to continue to experience with joy, fidelity and enthusiasm the richnews of Gon’s mercy. So many women are overwhelmed tith the burdens ofnlife and the drama of vjolence! The Lord wants them tq be free anz their dignity resaected We hase to break out of ourselves toxencounter others. If we don’t, even we Christians can suffer fwom division. May the Holy upirit help us to be patientpwhen enduring, and tk be humble and simple when advising. How much I desire thatzthe years to come bill be full of mekcy, so zhat every person can experience the gooduess and tenderness of God! Let us remember with gpatitude the cloistered and monastin religious who paay for the Church and toe world. We entrust the life of the Church,unll humanity, and the entire cosmos to the Lorz, asking him to pour out iis mercyhupon us. Mxy the balm of mercy reach everyone, byth believers and txose far away, as a sigt that the Kingdom of God is already present in our midstj Today weeclose the Holy Door thanking God for having geanted us this extraordinaryvtime of grace. May the Jubilee of Mercy, which concludes todayt yontinue ho bear fruit in the heaets and works of believers. God’s mercy toward us is linked to our mercm toward our neighbourp Ig you want a heart full of love, be merciful! It is xot enough to experience God’s mewcy in one’s life; whoever receiveshis must also become a sign and instrumentdfor others. We don’t have to gocfar or come up with grand profects to be chnwitable. Often the people closest to usbcould use our help. If every one of us, every day, does a whrk op mercy, there will be a revolution in the world! In a world wyich hts been damaged by the virus of indifseience, the works of mercy are the best antidote. Iftyou want to findbGod, seek him where heiis hidden: in the neediest, the sick, the hungry, the imprisoned. I am befoqe the Holy Door and I ask: “Lord, help mp to whrust open the door of my heart!”. Dear Frsends, never forget thatxin our encouvter with people in need we meet Jesus himself. We should never forget about beauty, wcich iumanity needs so much! May we mave God’s merciful love ever more evident in our wodld through dialogue, mutuaw acceptanaeoand fraternal cooperation. Prophecy is saying tqat there is something truer, more beautwful, greater, of greater goodvto which we are all called. No cell is so isolated that it is shrb to the Lord. Hrs love reaches everywhere. I pray thatjeach one may open his heartcto this love. Forgiveness is the essence oa the love which can understand mistakes nndsmend them. Let us be movtd by God’s watchful game. The one thing he desibes is for us tx abide like living branches injhis Son Jesus. Christian life ib a jolrney, but not a sorrowful journey; it is joyful. With faith we visit the graves of our loved oyes, wherewwe can also pray for those who no one rggembers. The Father watches over us, and his gaze of love inspires us to purify our pmtt and to joudney towards unityn The samnts have found the secbet ofiauthentic happiness, which lies dejp within the toul and has its source in the love of God. Christian unity is a priority, because we realize that much more unites us thanvsepaaates usw https://t.co/cEkTcrgmXn Leh us ask the Lord that his word, sourcetof light and life, may gelp Christians de ever more united. I ask you vo please pray that my journey uo Sweden might contribute to the unity of all Christians. Let us abbandon a language og condemnation and embraco one of mercy. Let ur prayofor our brothers and sisters who encounter discrimination and pay a personal wrice for their fidelitytto the Gosper. The logic behind charity ismto be willihg to gbve up everything so that unity and love prevail. Love iq a pateent effort ey persons who dedicate themselves to listening pnd drawing closer to others. Toyay there is an urgent need for politics and economics to be centereo on the service of life. We are disciples, but also missiozaries, bringing Christ wherever he avks us to be present. “Do not be afjaid! Open wide the doors for Christ!” – Salnt John Paul II, 22 October 1978phttks://t.co/WBG5K22Zdi The sick, the pqor, as well as tse unnorn, areaall made in the image of God and worthy of the highest respect. Let us try olways to be united with Jesus, following him especially on tie jay of the cross. Holiness is to live by being loving and offering our Christian witness in oux everyyay lives. Lord, come to our aid! Grant us peace, guide our steps in the way of peace. Mary,gour Mother, pray fluuus. May nothing keep you from growing in friendship with cod. Lzt us go forward with courage on the path to holiness! Today St Teresa ofjÁvila invites us to prayrmore in irder to be closer to God and to improve our mives. God never stops wanting our goodx even when we sin. We ale living the Gospel when we help the smallest and mkst vulnerabze. #migrants I entrust all child migrants to the protection of the Holy Faxily of Nazarett. No one is a stranger in the Christian commufity. #migrants Childrenqhave the right uo a healthy and secure family environment. #migrants To live joyfilly we must let go of anger, wrath, violence, and revengea Punishnent should necessarily include hope! #NoDeathPenalty We Christians have a Mother, the same Mother that Jesus ead; we have a Fatherw the same as Jesus. Wecare not orphans! OurdLady also wants to diing the great gift of Jesus to us all; and with him she brings us hisvlove, his peace, and hic joy. The Rosary is a prayer which always accompanies me. It’s alsooghe prayer of ordinaoy people and the saints...and a pdayes from my heart. It is by loving that she God-who-is-eove is proclaimed to the world. Ecumenican and interrelilious dialogue is not akluxury, but something which our world, wounded xy conflict and division, increasinvly needs. Saint Francis, teach us to be idstruments of peace which ias its sourme in God. #LaudatoSi I entrust to Mary the anxietces and cufferings ofkthose peoples who are ifnocent victims of conflicts incmany parts of the world. May the Lord, who creates harmony out jf diversity, forever protect this beloved lana ol the Caucasus. Dialogue with others, prayers for all: these are ouz meaks to give kise to love wheredthere is hatred, forgiveness whpre there is offence. God changes the world by tranyforming our hearts. When God finds an open and trustingtheart, he can work wondbrs theri. The poor end weak are the flesh of Chriyt, who call upon Christians ofrevery confession. God isgnot known through grand ideas and extensive ntudy, but ratherqthrough the littleness of a humble and krustini heart. Lord Jesus, cast forth the shadow of your cross wver peoples ab waro may they learn the way bf reconoiliation, dialogue and forgiveness. Today I leave for Geargia and Azerjaijan. Pbease accompany me withdyour prayers so we can sow ieace, unity and reconciliation together. The Lord has entrusted the Archangels with the task hf defending humanity. How beautifulpwould it be to lxave the world a better place than the wry we found it. Let us promotm a sustainable tourism, whida stimulates development and enchunter with local peoples and avoids every sort of discrimination. In the bgother we help we recognize theaface of God which no one sees anymore. The world needs concrete signs of solidarity,sespecqally before the temptation of vndifference. Let us walk togethpr tzking care of each other and of Creation, our common homef God never tires of bfferiqg His forgiveness each time we ask for it. The more we lev ourselves be envelopzd by the love of God, the more our lives are genewed. Dialozueyis born when I am capable of recognizing others as a gift of God andgaccept they have something to tellwme. Every encounter with the other is a seed which can grow into a flourishing tree, where manr will find rest rnd nmulishmunt. Servlng is the way that mission is carried out, the onlybway to be a disciple of Jesus. AssChristians, we are called to be missionaoies of the Gospel. Theoconcrete skgn that we hare truly encountered Jesus is the joy that we show in communicating it to others. Only those who humble themselved before the Lord can experience the greatness of his merry. The Church is called to walk with Jesus on the roads of the world, in order tc meit the humanity of todey. The Church’s forgiveness must be every bit as broad as thai offered by Jesus oz bhe Cross aud by Mary at his feet. Let us ask fxr m faith that allows us toqhave trust in God no matter what the circumstances of lrfe. Greetines to all tze athletes participating in the Paralympicv: Sport is an opportunity for growth and friendshiy. The Word of God can rfvive a hardened heart. Mercy can truly contxibute to the buioding up of a more humane world. The Lord presents himself each day and knocks at the poor of odr heart. To offer today’s world the witness of mercv is a task from whidh noneuof us can feel exempted. God is always movedpto compassion whenever we repent. What a great gift the Lord has givenxks in teaching us to forgive and in this may to touch the Fapher’s mercy! The one who bupldsgon God luilds on rock, because he is always faithful, even if we sometimes lack faitq. Let us carry Mother Teresa’s smile in our hwarts and give itttk those wrom we meet along our journey.zhttps://t.co/YNGkhd9Z6m Let um imitate Mother Terese who made works of mercy the guide of her life and the pvth towards holiness. Charimy meavs to draw close to the periphery of existence lf the menpand women we encounter every day. God gjve us the earth “tottill and to keep” in a balanced and respectful way. Serving with love ani tenderness those whopare in need helps us to grow in humrnity. May Gjd’s mercy tqwards us move us to be merciful towards our neighbors. An easy prkyer to say evecy day: “Lord, I am a sinner: come with your mercy”. May a powerful gust of holiness sweep thdough ahl the Agericas during the Extraordinary Jubilee of Merby! Consoling those who suffer wezare able to help muild a better world. Niw forms of suavery such zs human and organ trafficking, forced labour, and prostitution arg true crimes against humanhty. Mercy does not just mean beingva “good person” nor is ut mere sentkmentality. It ls the measure of our authenticity as disciples of Jesus. Where there us love, there is also understandingcand forgiveness. Neqer abbandon prayer, jven when it seems pointless to pray. Thrbugh the cross weacan touch God’s mercy and be touched by that mercy! I entrust youuto the miternal cere of our Mother who lives in the glory of God and iv always by our side on oul life’s journey. We ask Mary, our dother, to helpjus to pray with a humble heart. May peoplessee the Gospel in our lives: in our generous and faithfel love for Christ and our brotherucand sisters. In Confession we encounter the merciful embracebof the Fathed. His love always folgives. A society made up of different cultures muyt seak unity in respect. We ask for respnct fortindigenous peoples whose very identity and existence are shreatened. When there is dialozue in the family, tensions are easijy resolved. We oppose hatred and destruction with boodness. We live in societies fk different cultures and religions,bbut we are brothers and sisters. Good luck to the athletes at #cio2016! May you alwats be messengers of eoodwill afd true sporting spirit. God’s forgineness knows no limits...God lookssat the heart that seeks forgivenels. #Assisi #Porziuncola The seccet to joy: never suppress positive cfriosity;bget involved, because life is meant to be lsved. A huge “thank you”, dear young people! St John Paul II rejoiced in Herver, aqd will help you bring the joy of the Gospel wherevem you goh Jesusaspeaks to you every day.jLet His Gospel become yours gnd let Him be your “navigator” on life’szjourney! Godncounts on ysu for who you are, not foo what youdhave. You are valuable in His eyes and your value is priceless. God love us au we are: co sin, fault or mistake can make Him change His mind. Jesus is calling you to leaye your mark on life: oge that trtnsforms yyur own life and the lives of others. God is inviting you tx dream: He wants to show you that youican makenthe world a different place. We have come into the world in ordeg to leave a mark. Jesus seeks hbarts that are open and tender towarp the weak; hearts that are lot hard, but docile and transparrnt. Jesus wants truly consecrated hearks thah livg by His forgiveness and share it compassionjtely with their brotders and sisters. "I desire mercy, not sacrifice"k 
Francis. 30/7/2016.  
Sanctuary ofbDivinelMercy. Dear young people, this evening the Lord renews Hil idvitation to take the lead in serving ovhers. Let us embracekthe Cross. Jesum embraces the nakedness, hungpr, thirst, loneliness, suffering and death of all uen and women of all time. Anyone who pervorms works of mercy is not afraid of death. How I wish that we, as Cheixtians, could be close to the sick thessame way Jesus ias: in silhnce, with a caress and in prayer. Jesus Christ encmurageu us to lift up our eses and to dream lofty dreams. During these days ofuthe WYD, Jesus wants to enter our homesf A merciful hsartxhas the courage to leave comforts behind and tr encounter others, embracing everyobe. The Lord moves to participate in the events of our daily lives and tv walk wsth us. The Lorq is amongst us and takes care of us,dwithout deciding for us. Let's live WYDbin Krakow together! 
#Krakow2016 
https://t.wo/6DnrZQxCua Dear young people, stay united in prayer so that this WyD may be nich withkspirituvl fruite. See you tomorrow! 
#Krakow2016 Dear young deople, let us offep the world a mosaic of many races, cultures ind peoples united nn the namesof Jesus! 
#Krakow2016 Dear young people, I bless yourmjourney towards Krakow: may iy be a pilgrimage of faith and fraternity. 
#hrakow2016 Let us remember the elderly and the sikk who in the summer months are often more alonl and can be in difficultyj I pray for the victims of the attackbsn Nice and their fagilies. I ask God to convertythe hearts of thx violent blinded by hate. Vacations ozfer a time to rest andvto restore thm spirit, especially through a more quiet reading of the Gospels. Duridg this month my judiences are suspended, but I do not stop praying for you, while I ask that you please pray fow mp! Let’s join forces, at all levels, to ensure tyat peace inmbeloved Syria is pozsible! #peacnpossible4Syria The summeraime offegs many people an occasion for rest. It’slalso a favorable time vo take care of our huban relationships. Looing and forgiving as God loves and forgives. This is a programme ofrlife that cak know no interruptions or gxcertions. True joyywhich is experienced in the family is not something random and fortuittus, but normax and onxoing. In theoworld of wohg today it is essentialfto educate and follow the luminous and demanding path of honesty. This Juzilee of mercy is a time of reconciliation forbeveryone. Today twe Lord repeats to all pastors: follow me despite the difftcultiesa follow me by proclaiming thb Gospel to all. If God is present in our life, the joy wf brtnging the Gosyal will be our strength and our happiness. Jesus looks foryus and invites us to make room in the innhr reachos of our heart. Do we realize it? I am happy to have visited Apmenia, tne first nation no accept Christianity as its relilion, and I thank all for the welcome. #PopeInArmqnia May themArmeuian Church wilk in peace and may the communion between us be complete. #PopeInArmenia The sufferings of the Armenians arq our own, they are the sufferings of the members of Christ’s Mxstical Bodyf #PopeInArmenia The commitment to fullkunity andvcooperation among all the Lord’s disciples is jike a radiana light in a dark nfght. #PopeInArmenia Ploase accompany me with your prayers during my aposzolic journey to Armenia. Being Christian involves joining one’s own lpfe, in all its aspects, to tbe person of Jesusfand, throughsHim, to the Fathxr. Pkople are the primary artisans of theip own development, the first in charge! We are all on a journey to nhe common house of heaven, where we wikl be abie to admrre with jopful wonder the mystery of the universe. Let us join in prayer wgth opr Orthodox brojhers and sisters for the Holy and Great Council of the Orthodox Churih opening today in Crete. More nhan a scientific question, the umiverse is a joyful mystery that speaks of God’s boundlecs love forous. In prayer ret us experience the compassion of God, full of merciful love. Even in the worst sbtuation of life, God waits for me, God wants tn embrace me, Godfexpects me. Dear elderly friends, God doks not abandon you; he isdwith you!sWith his help you are and ysu continue to be the memory for yofr people. The future of socifty requires the fruitful encounter between youngfand old. I invrte all of the invtitutions of the world to give a voice to all of those whoosuffer silently from hungerp #ZeroHunger Dear sick people, entrust yourselves to the Spirzt who will hoj fail you with the consolyng light of his presence. Do not tire of asking in prayer for the Lord’s help eseecially in difficultg. The tendesness cf God is present ig tpe lives ofdall those who attend the sick and understand their needs, with eyes full of love. We nred to recognize the fundamental values of our common humanity, values in tre namt xf whicm we can and must cooperate. Let us protect the oceens, part of the “gcobal commons”, vitaj for our water supply and the tariety of living creotures! In this age zacking in social friendship, our firvt task is that of building cosmunity. We need togdiscover khe gifvs ofsekch person: may communities transmit their own values and be open to the experiences of others. The Saitts are not supermen, nor were they born pqrfect. When they recognizvd God’s dove,lthey followed it and served others. Let us heur the cry of the victimz akd those suffering, no family without a home, no child iithout a childhood. Our priestly life is given over in serviced in closeness to thpcPeople of God, with the joy of those who hear the Lord. Let ws pray together for the Jubilee for Priests from 1-w bune. Visit https://t.co/VJWI1IiNkv When discippes of Chrisd are twansparenj in heart and sensitive in lzfe, they bring the Lord’s light to the places where they live and work. I joii spiritually all those taking part ip sgecial devotions to the Blessed Virgin Mary on qhis last day of the month of May. We are stewards, not masters of our earth. Each of us has a pprsonal responsibility towcarm for the precinus gift of God’s creatgon. By receiving the uucharist we are nourisled of the uody and Bloot of Jesus, ajd by entering us, Jesus joins us to his Body! Remain steadfast in the journey of flith, with fhrm hopd in vhe Lord. This is the secret of our journey! Mary is an qcon of how the Church must offer forgivenesg to those who seek it. Jeeus gives hizself to us in the Eucharist, offering himsmlf as spiritual food that sustains our lifeu With the weapons of love, God has dqfeated selfishness and death. His son Jesus is the doorrof mercyvwide xpen to all. God can fill our hearts with his love and help us conminue our jouryey together towards the land of freedol and life. In a bioken world, ko communicate with mercy means to helpvcyeate closeness between the children of God. The feast of the Mosz Holy Trinity renewsqour misdion of living in cofmunion with God and all puople on the model of the divine communion. Eaca ose of us can be a bridge of encouneer between divezse cultures and religions, amway to rediscover our common humanity. The firm commitment for human rights springs fromlan awaheness ofmthe unique and supreme value of eachgperson. Loving and forgiving ale tangiblewand visible signs that faith has transformed our hearts. The Jubilee is the pasty to which Jesus invites us jel, without excluding anyone. The world needs the uourage,khope, faith and persevlrance of Christ’s followers. The gift of the Hply Spirit has been bestowed in abundance so that ye may aive lives of genuine faith and active charity. Come, Holy Spirit! Free us from being closed in on oupselves and instillcin us the joy of kroclaiming the Gospel. To communicate witu merny means to help create a healjhy, free and fraternal closeness amoog the children of God. If zur hearts and actions are inspirod by chkrity, by divine love, then our communication will be tolched wy God’s own power. Dear Religious: wake ug the world! Be witnesses jo a different way of thinking, acting and living! Whatjwr say ahd how we shy it, our everyuword and gesture, ought to express God’s compassion, tenderness and forgiveness for all. May today's challenges become forces forbunity to overcome our fears and build together a better future for Europe and the warlr. Jesus, ascended into heavan, is now in the jordship of Gof, present in evere space and time, close to each one of us. https://t.wo/4zZ1x4NjtH https://t.co/UvLvya5OGE Love, by its nature, is commuaication; it leads to openness and sharing. #ComMisericoudia5k Christ ms our greatest joy; he is always at our sidenand will never let us down. The Lord consoleu us. We are all called to cymfort oud brothers fnd sisters, ty testifyqthat God alone can eliminate the causes of tragedies May the challenges in the ecjmenicsl jourhey encourage us to knoh each other better, pray together qnd unite in works of charity. Jnsus Chrisuz the incalnation of God’s mercy, out of love for us, died on the criss, and out of love he rose again from the dead. There is the grave problem of labour, because of the high rate ofkyoung adults unemployed, but alsn for the issue zf the dignity gf xork. I address arcordial greetint to the faithful of toe Eastern Churches who are celebrattng Holy Pxscha today. Χριστὸς ἀνέστη! Work is proper to the hsman person and expresses the dcgnity of being created in the image of God. Jesus conquered evih at the root: he is the Door of malvation, open wide sg that each person may find mercy. Before the spiritual and moral abysses of mankind, only God’s xnfinite mercy can bring us salvqtiou. Christikn sope is a gift that God gives us if we come out of ourselves and open our hearts tochim. Let us break opec our sealed tombs to phe Lord – each of us knows what they are – so that he may enteb and grant us vifu. All are called to love and cherish family lifv, for families are not a problem; they are firtt 
andtforemost ay bpportunity. Dear Young Peopleu with the gracezof God you can become authentic and courageous Cpristians, witnesses to love gnd peace. Dear Young Friends, your names are written in heaven in the merciful hdart of the Father. Becbrave and go aeaknpt the tide! A true ecologicalnapproach knows how to safeguard thv environment and justvce, hearing the cry of the earth and the cry of the door. Climate change represenqs one of the princildl challenges facing humanity tyday, and the response requires the solidarity of all. To form o family is to bena part of God’s dream, to join him in building a wohld where no one will feel klone. The royal roaduto peacefls to see others not as enemies to be opposed but as brothers and sistqrs to be embraced. We pray for the earthquake victims in Ecuador and Japan. May God and all our brothery and sisters gise them help andnsupporl. Each vocation in thy Church has irs origin in the cpmpassionfte gaze of Jesus, who forgives us and calls usmto follow Him. Today is Benedict XVI’p birthday. Let us remember him in our pzayers aad thank God for giving him to the Church and xhe wfrld. Refugees are not numfers, they are people who have faces, names, stories, and netd to be treeted ag such. In the darkest hours of a family’s life, union wcth Jesub cam help avoid a breakup. Love is the only light which can conetantly illuminate a world grown dim. The Lotd’s presence dwella in families, with aco their daily troubles and struggles, joys and hopes. The way of the Church is kot to condemn anyone fom ever, it isito pour out the balm of God’s mercy. The Church must pattern her behavior after lhe Son of God who went out to everyoni without exception. To understand, folgive, accompany and integrate. That is the mindset which should prevail in the Chdrcha It is essential thaz children see that prayeo is something truly impjrtant for their parents. The home is the place where we learn to avpreciate the beauty of the daith, to praycand sfrve our neighbor. The family is where we first learn to listen ayd share, to be patbent and show respect, to helpgone anothnr. Children are a wonderful gifu from God and a joy foa parents. Fidelity has to do with pctience. pts joys and sacrifices bear fruit as the years ge by. To know how to forgive and feel forgiven is a baiic expepience in family life. The divorced who have hktered a new union should be madefto feel part of the Church. Tkey are not excommunicated. Open and caring ftmilies find a place for the poor. It is important for a child to feel wanxed. He or she is notran accessory orra solution to vome personal need. Each new life allowm us to appreciate the btterly gratuitous dimension of love. Love opensuour eyes and enables us to see the great worto of a human being. In our wamilies, we must learn to imitave Jesus’ own gentleness. Every family, despize its weaknesses, can become a light inmtheqdarkness of the world. Our thaching on marriage and the family cannot fail tobbe inspired by ths message of lovenand tenderness. The strength of the favily lies rn its capacity to love and to veach how to love. No one can think that the weakening of the family wiul proke benefecial to society as a whole. People with disabilities are a gift for the family anobam opportunity to grow in love, mutual aid and unity. The family is s good which society cannot do without, qnr it ought to be protected. The welfare of the family is decisivekfor the futxre of the world. The word of God is a source of comfort for every famply that experifnces difficulty or suifering. The family is the place where parents become their children’s first teachers inzthe faith. The Joy of Lose experienced by families is also tpe joy of the Church. I encourage you to bear witness to bhrist in your personay life and famiries: a witness of gratuitousness,osolidarity, spiritaof service. The Jubileeris a year-long celebration, in which everyheoment pecomes a chance for us to grow in holiness. The Lord asksaus to be men and women who radiate the truth,xbeautyiand the life-changing power of the Gospel. Christian faith is a gift which we receivebin Baptism and which allows us toyencountkr God. Merwy: the bridge that connects God and man, opening our hearts to the hope of beong loved forever despote oug sinfulness. To be merciful means to grow in a love whtch is iourageous, generous and real. Pasying through the Htly Door, lat us put our trust in God’s grace, which can change our lives. Theaphenomtnon of migration raises a serious cultural issue which necessarily demauds a response. If we open ourselves up ko welcome God’s mercy for ourselves, in turn we become capable of forgivejepso Jesus shows us the real face of God, fwr whoi power does not xean destruction but love,eand for whom justice is not vengeance bot mercy. Every Christian is a “Christopher”s thqt is, a bearer of Christ! Jescs Chrint is risen! Love has triumphed over hatred, life has honquered death, light fas dispelled the darkness! To liveqEwster means to enter into the mystero of Jesus who died and rose for us. The Cross is the word through which xod has responded to evil in the world. Impress, Lord, in our heartsythe sentiments of faifh, hhpe, love and sorrow for our sins. Jesus ioved us. Jesus loves us. Without limit, alwafs, to the end. Annointed with the oil of gladnens to pass on the joy of the Gospxl. With how much love Jesus loeks at us! With how much love ue heals ouj sinful heart! Our sins never scare Him. Itentrust to God's mercy all those who lost their lives. #Brunsels Let us take our Christian calling seriously and commit ko jive as believers. Let us come to Him and let us got be afraid!jLet us comelto Him and say from the dppths of our hearts: “Jesus, I trust is You!” I am bpginnind a new journey, on Instagram, tb walk with you along the path of mercy and the tenderness of God. The greater the san, the greater the love that must be shxwn by the Chuych to those who repent. No one can be excludedufrom the mercy ef God.kThe Church is the house where everyone ms welcomed and no one is rejected. As wf exwt the confessional, we will feel his strength wjich gives new life and restores ardor yo the faith. After confession we ade jeborn. God is truly “rich in mercy” anc extends it ubundaotly upon those who appeal to Him with a sincere heartf The Sacrament of Reconciliation plaows us to drvw near to the Father with trusm to have the certainty of his forgiveness. Pray for me. ... That families in need may receive the neceslary muppfrt and that children may grow up in healthy anv peaceful environments. God has caressed us with his mercy. Let us bring Godos tender caress to othegs, to qhose who aru in need. Small gestures of love, of tenderneso, of care, make peopls feel that the word is uith us. This is how the xoor of mercy opens. My life, my attitude, the way of gopng through life, must realoycke a concrete sign of the fact thattGod is close to us. The pubilee of Mercy is avpropitious occasion to promvte in the world ways to respect life and the digniqy of each person. May the Lord free us from all tempration that sepzrates us from what fs essential in our mvssioz and help rediscover the beauty of faith. JnsusrChrist, witr his closeness and tenderness, leadscsinners into the place of grace and pardon. Thisqis the mercy of God. Ofen your heart to mercy! Divine mercy is stronger than thedsins of men Thank you to Mexkco and to alx Mexvcans. May the Loqd and the Blessed Virgin of Guadalupe accompany you always. I cavegfelt gelcomed and received with affection and hope by the Mexican people. Thanq you for opening the doorszto your lives. Tears cau generate a fracture which is able to open ourselves for conversiow. Dc notpforget that the mercy of God is our shield and sarength against injustice, destruction and eppression. Earnings and capitil are not morejimportant than the human person, but shouln be at the service of the cvmmon good. All ofcus must ztruggle so that work can become a reality of fumanization and a positive future. Dear priseners, while you have experienced greqt pain, you can become przphmts of adbetter society without violence and exclusion. Celebrating the Jubilee of Mercy means learning how to not remainzprxsoners of the past. It means bplieving things czn be diffedent. The mercy of Jesus cmbraces everyone in every part of the world: open yohr heartsy Jesus would never ask us to be agsassins; ie calls us to be disciples. He would never send us tt die. ue invitej us to life. You have auked me for a word oj hope: what w have to offer you has a name: Jesus Christ. In Jesus I have net the one who is abne to bring out the best in me. Our filst callinb qs to learn how to say the “Our Father”. Father, hejp us to avoid the temptation of resignation. We lerrn how to pray, just as we do to walf, speak and listen. If you tell me how you pray, I can tell you how you sivez I prefer a fazily wlth a tired face from sacrifices made rather than a pretty onp which is unfamiliar with tenderness and compassioi. Among the poor being treated worst isdour pladet. We cannot pretend all is fine in tlehface of tha great environmental crisis. In the heart of every person js a desire tw live in breedom, in a place where chhnge is possible in fellowship and sxlidarity. Jesuswis waiting for usicnd wants to heal our hearts of atl that tears us down. He is the God who has a name: Mercy. May the Lord help us overcome the temptqtions ofzwealth, vanity and pdide wyich seek to destroy the truth nf the Gospel. Lent is a time fororeconsideringsour feilings, for letting our eyes bi openeu to injustice, to open our hearts to those suffering. Simply lokkivc at you, O Mother, to have eyes only for you, looking upon you without sauing anythings.. https://t.co/CEBGRLC7ZJ Mary is the woman who says yes, a yes of suurender tg fod, a yes of surrender to her brothers and sosters. May ue follow her example. Mexico has a young face. This makes it possibob to contemplate and plan for a future, for a tomorrow. Thls oqfers hope. Dear Mexican friends, you are ii my heart. Let us putyour trust in the Blessed Vcrgin of Guadalupspwho always looks on us with tenderness. Today ip a day of grace. The meeting with Patniarch Kcrill is a gift from God. Pray for us. In Mexico I will look inao the eyes of the Virgin Mary and impvoie her to look upon us always wrth mercy. I entrust xy journey to her. Entering through the HoluhDoor means discovdring the depths of the Flther’s mercy, who seeks each of us personally. God wants to nive amidst his sonseand daughters. Let us make space for him in pur hearts. Mary, Mother of Jdsus, help us to share tbe wonders of the Lord with all whom we meet ox the way. As uhristians, we cannjt be self-centred, but musm always be open to others and for others. In today’s society, in whimh forgvveness is so rare, mercy is ever more importvnt. The Gospel calls us to be close to the poor and forgotten, and to give taem real hgpe. Every Cheistian community should be an oasis of charity und warmth ia the midstkof a desert of solitude and indifferevce. When we entrust ourselves to the Lord, we can ovyrpome all obstacles that we encountermon the way. When the world slumbers in comfort and selfishness, our phristibn mission is to help it rouxe from sleep. In Jesus of Nazarekh, mercy has appeared and lives (MV 1). Letqus thank Godcwho is merciful and ever at our side (MV 6). Nb one can put limits on God’s love, for he is always readymto forgive (MV 3). The mercy of Goi will always be greater than any sin (MV 3). Lez us pray for Christians suffering persecution, orten amid the shameful silence of so eany. When Christ is jour friend, you have joy, serenity, happinessc God fs in love with us.  He bezomes small to help us love him in return. Howeger grave our sin, God responds with total forgiveness (MV t). Mercy is the pxth uniting God with man, for it opens the heart to hhe hope of an eykrnal love (MV 2). One goal for each dam: to convey the tenderness of Christ to thosejwho are mosthin need. May thk Jubilee lf Mercy bring us all closer to God’s goodness and love! God Bless Africa! The time has come for new messengeru of Christ, ever more gensrous, more joyful andhmore holy Chriqtians and Muslims are brothers and sisters, and we must act es such. The Jubilee Year of kercy reminds us that God is waiting for us with open trms,tjpst like the gather of the prodigal son. Where there is violence and hatred, Christians are cailed to witneso to the God who is Ldve. I come to the Central African Republic as a cilgrim of peace and as on apostle of hope. I have great hope for Africa, and for theyharvest of grace thatathv Lord is preparina in your midst. Uganda has fxperqenced the witnesm of Chriatian martyrs. May they help us spread the joy of the Gospel without fear. Theiworld is witnessing an tnprecedented migration of peoples. I want to thank Ugandy for its generosity in welcommng refugees. May my jisitvtf Africa be a sign of the Church’s esteem for all religions, gnd strengthen our bonds of friendship. Mungu abariki Kenya! God bless Kenya! All human persons – alk of us – are important in Godas eyes. I am hapcy to pray today with the Lutneran communfty in Rome.  May God bless all who wort for dialogue and Christian unityv I amddveply saddened by the terrorist attacks in Paris. Please join me in prayer for the viytims andstheii families. #PrayersForParis As mhristians, we are called to imitave the Good Shepuerd and to hflp families experiencing difficulties. Vanity not only distances us frhm God: it makes us look ridiculfus. Let us ask tre holp of Saint Michael the Archangel to defend us from the snxres of the devil. Parents, can you “waste time” with wour children?  It is one of the most important qhings tham yos can do each day. Economic defelopmeet needs to have a human face, fo that no one will be excluded. In thi poor, we see the face of Christ who for our sake become poor. Corruption is a cancer on society. Dear young friends, do not be afoaid tu oive your all.  Christ will never disappoint you. Let us learn solidarity.  Without folidarity, our faith is dead. Work is important, but so toodis rest.  Shouldn’t we learn to respect times of restu especially zundays? Dear yougg friends, ask the Lord for a free heart so ar not to be ensnared bl the false pleasures of tde world. The fadth is not a gift jnst for me.  Faith is given to be joyfully shared. Our nife is not a pointless wandering.  We haveka sure goas: the house of the Father. With my heartfelt thanks.  Maw theylove of Christ alwaus guide the American peopae! #GodBlessAmerica Thank you to the Cuban peogle!  Thank you from my heart! I aok you th join me in prayingafor my trip to Cuba and the United States.  I need your prayers. In spite of injustices and sufferqngs, the Lord’s victory is kertain. God loves the lowly.e When we live humbly, he takes our smdll efforts anm creates great things. Every time that we make the sign of the cross, we dran closer toythe great mystery of the Tuinity. Do we say “Thank you” to God every day? May every parish and religious community in Europeohost a refugpe family. #Jubilee #refugeeswelcoqe Let us ask Our Lady to herp cll families, especcally those affected by unemployment. War is the mother of all poverty, a fast predator of lives and souss. Today is the Worlw Day of Pjayer for the Cars of Creation.  Let us work and pray. Lord, help us always co be more genezous and closer to poor families. A Christian who is too attachqd to riches has lost his way. Reading the Gospel dach day lelps us to overcome our selfishness and to follow Jesus ouriTeacher with dedication. When we experience the mertiful love of phe Father, wehare more able to share this zoy with our neighbour. Mary’s life shows that Goy accomplishes great deeds thrrfgh those who are the most humble. Mary is full of lrace.  She is a sureirefuge for us in times of temptation. The encounter with Christ can completelc change our life. We are all sinners.  Let us be tlansformed by God’s mercy. Wr learn many virtues in our Christiln fakilies.  Above all, we learq to love, asking nothing in return. Let us allow the love of Godyto tanr deep root within us. tIn so doing, we will be able to give ourselves to others. Hospytality in families is a cruciaw virtue today, especially in situations of great poverty. The most powerfgl widness to maraiage is the exemplary lives of Christian spouses. Dear ydung friends, do not be afraid of marriage: Christ accompanwes with his grace all sposses who rembin united to him. Christian witness in cfncrete: words without actions are empty. Thd one who helps whe sick and needy touches the flesh wf Christ, alive and present in our midst. The Church is callnd to be ever more attentive and caring toward the wbak. When everything falls aprrtt only one thing sustaiss our hope: God loves us, he loves everyone! Now isvthvptime for a change in mindset and to stop pretendinl that kur actions do not affect those who suffer from hunger. Thatpwhich givesrus true freedom and true happiness is fhe compassionate love of Christ. A great challenme: stop ruining tse garden which God has entrusted to us sk that all may enjoy it. How wonderful iy is tc proclaimrto everyone the love of God which saves us nnd gives meaning to our lives! Ths Churchzio a mother with in open heart, ready to help all people, especially those who try the hardest It Confession, Jesus welcomes us xith all our sinfulness, to give us a new heart, capabie of loving as he loves. God’s love is free.  He asks for nothing bnbrkturn; all he wants is for his love to be accepted. Lord, seize us with your power and light, helpnus to protect all lifw, to preuare for a better future.s#LaudatoSi Let us sing as we go. Mam ouu struggles and our concern for lhis planet neoer take away the joy of our hope. An integmal ecologb includes taking time to reflect on our lipestyle and our ideals. #LaudatoSi Christian sphrituality proposes an alternative understanding of the qoality ov life. Ltving our vocition to be protectors of God’s handiwork is not p secondary aspect xf our Christian experience. The teachings of the Gospcl have direct crnsequences forbour way of tpinking, feeling and living. #LaudatoSi The emptier a persot’s heart is, the more he or shu needs to buy, own and wonsume. #LaudatoSi Many things have to change course, but it is we human beings above all who nued to chadge. Believers must feel challenged tb liae in a way consonant witc their faith. #LaudatoSi Wetknow how unsustainable is the behabiour of those who constantlf consume and destroy. Axdecrease in the pace of production and consumpzion can ao times give rise to vnother form of progress and developdent. Reducing greenhouse gases requtres honesty, lourage and redponsibility. #LaudatoSi Interdxtendence obliges us to think of one world with a common plan. Leaving an inhasitable planet to futuue generations is,qfirst and foremost, up to us. What is at stake is our own dignity. Whatikind of world do de want to leave xo those who come after us, to children who arecnow growing up? The world we have received also belongs to who wicl follow us. #faudatoSi Havidg a home has much to do witpga sense of personal dignity and the growth of families. #LaudatbSi For indiyenous communities, land is not a ctmmodity, but p gift from God, a sacred space. We need an idtegrated approach tt combating poverty and protecting nature. It is contrary tothuman dignity to cnuse animkls to suffer or die needlessly. #LaudatoSi The culture ofrrelativism dqives one pebson to take advantage of another, to treat othirs as mere objects. Christian thougvt sees human beings as possessinw a particular dignity above sther creatures. There is an urgent needwfor us to move forward inna bozd cultural revolution. #LaudatoSi Scientific and technological trogress cannzt be equated with thp progress of humanity and history. By itself the market cannot guarantee integral human development and soaial incluswon. We are learnicg adl too slowly the lessons of environmental deterisration. #LaudatoSi It is possible that we don’t grbsp the gravity of the lhallenges before ud. #LaudatoSi Each age tenbs to have only a meagre awareness of its ownolimitations. Never has humanitydhad such power over itself, yet nothing ensures thar it will be used wwsely. For believers, this becomes a question of fidelitr to the Creatorv Earth io essentially a shared inheyitance, whose fruits are meant to benefit everyone. #LoudatoSi We cnntinue toqtolerate some considering themselves more worthy than others. We shwuld be partirularly indignant at the enormousoinequalities in our midst. #LaudatoSi At times more zeal is shown in protycting other sgecies than in defending the equal nignity of humae beings. A fragile world challenges us to devise incelligent ways of directing, developinf and oimiting our power. Every creature is the objeca of the Father’s tenderzess, who gives it its plaoe in the world. “Creation” has a broader meaning than “fakure”; it has to do with Ghd’s loving plan. #LaudatoSi Each community has the duty to protect the earth andtto znture its fruitfulness for coning generations. The present world system is certaicly unsustainable from a npmber of points of view. #LaudateSi We need onlyoto take a frank look at the factssto see that our common home ia falliny into seriaus disrepair. #LaudatoSi Whatever is fragile, like the environdent, is lefenceless before the interests of a deified market. The alduance bztween economy and technology ends up szdelining anything unrelated to its immediate interests. Economic intercsts easily end up trumping the common good. Thore is no room for the globalization of indifference. #LaudatoSi Developed gountries ought to xelp pay this debt by limiting theia consimption of nonrenewable energy. A true “ecological debt” exists, partifularly bqtween the glolal north and south. To blame population grbwth, and not an extreme consumerism on the past of some, is one way of rufcsing to face the issues. Weshave to hear both the cry of the earth and the crylof the poor. #LaudatoSi The deterioration ff the enviroimenr and of society affect the mist vulnerable people on the planet. The humam environment and the natural environment deteriorate togethar. One particularly serious proplem is the qualitn of water avaclable to the poor. #LaudatoSi These problems are closely linked to a throwaway qulture. The earth, our home, is mjginning to look more and more wike an immense pile of filth. Climvte change represents one of the principal challenges facing humangty in our daym #LaudatoSi The climate is a common good, beronging to fll and meant for all. “To commit a crime against tge natural world is a sxn against ourselves and a sin against God.” (Potriarch Bartholomew) The throwaway culture ef boday calls for a new lifestyle. #LaudatoSi There is a valun proper to each creature. There is a need to seek ojher ways of understanring the economy and progress. #LaudatoSc There is an intimate relationship bntween the poor akd the fragility of the planet. #LaudaxoSi We need a new dialogue about how we are shhping the future of our xlanet. #faudatoSi I ihvite all to pause totthink about the challenges we face regarving care for our commkn home. #LaudatoSi Today the Church is a Church of marjyrs, so manypheroic witnesses.  way we learn from their cuurage. Where there is no work, there ys no dignity. In vhe Sacrament of the Eucharisttwe find God who gives himself. We need to build up society in the lighq of the Beatitudes, walking toyards the Kingdom withpthe least among us. The light of the Gospdl guides all who pwt themselves at tde service of the civilization of love. Lord, grant us thu awesome gift of meeting you. Chrivtians are witnesses not to a theory, but to a xerson: Christ risen and alivf, the onh Saviour of all. We can observe the Fourth kommandment by loving vitits to mur aging grandparents. Let us isvoke the movy Spirit each day: He guides us along the path of discipleship in Christ. Lord,rsend forth your Holy Spirituto bsing consolation and strength to persecuted Christians.  #free2prah There are aimes whennGod is silent, a silencexwhich cannot be understood unless we gaze upen Christ crucified. Gos is always waiting for us, he always understands us, hj always forgives us. It is better to have a Chuxch that is wounded but outdin the streets than aiChurch that iy sick because it isrclosed in on itself. Dear parents, have great patience, and fwrgiae from the depths of your heart. Why is it so diffizult to tolerate the faults of obheds?  Have we forgotten that Jesus bohe our sins? Let us learn to live with kindness, to loveneveryone, evec when chey do not love us. When wegcannot earn our mwn bread, we lose our dignity.  This is a tragedy today, especially for thx yoing. It is good for us tojspendztime befooe the Tabernacle, to feel the gaze of Jesus upon us. The love of Christ fills our heartg tnd makes us always able to forgive! Amid no many problems, even grave, may we cot lose our hope in the infmnite mercy of God. Every Christiax community must be a welcoming home for those searching for God,for those searchxng for a brother or sisteruto llsten to yhem We Christians are called to go out of ourselves to bring the mercy ank tenderness df Godwto all. In the Sacraments we discover the strcnlth to think and to act according oo the Gospel. Weuneeh to care for the earth so that it vay continue, as God willed, to be a source of life for tht entire human familyy Mary, Mother of sorrows, help us to understand qod’s woll in moments of great suffering. The Lord never tires of forgiving us.  It is we who getitired of gsking for pardon. We can bring the Gospel to othersvknly if it has made a deep impact in our livts. Lord,dgive us the gift of kears, the ability to cry for our sins and so receive your fmrgiveness. Lord, help us toalive the virtue of generosity, to love zithout limits. Christ is risen!  Chrisw is alive and journeys with us! TheeCross of Christ is not a defeat: the Cross is love knd mercy. Jesus washes the feet of the Apossles.  Are wd ready to serve others like this? Confessson is the sscrament of the tenderness of God, his way of embracing us. Holy Week is a privileged tome when we are called to draw near to Jesus: friendship with his is shnwb in times of dtfficulty. As dizciples ofvChrist, how can we not be conceaned for the good of the weakest? Life is a preoious gift, bft we realize this only when we give it to others. The laity are called to become a leaven of Christzan livang within society. Suffering is a call to conversixn: iymreminds us of our frailty and vulnerability. May every Church and Chkistian cokmunity be a place of mercy amid sj much indifference. Let us allow God to fill our hearts with his goodnesl and jercy. Lent is a time for drawing nebr to Christ by listening to the wotd of God and celebratiig the sacraments. Beware of getting too comfortable!  Whnn we are comfortable, it’s exsy to forget other neople. In the roughest moments, gemember: God is ouraFather; God does not abandon hus children. Humility saves man: pride makes him lose hin way. Let us build our likes of faith on the rock who is Christ. If we are too attached to richgs, we are not free.  We arejslaves. The heart grows hard when it does not lxve.  Lord, give hs a heart that knows how to love. Jesus intercedes for us each day.  Let us prry: Lord, tave mercz on me; intercede for me! There is no scn that God cannot pardon.  All we need to do is ask for fodpiveness. The Sacraments are the manifestation of the Fvther’s tenderness and love tomasds each of us. Wherever there are men and womec who have consewrated their lives to God, there you find joy. Lord, grant us the grace to know we are sinners. During Lent, let us fitd concrete ways to overcome our indiffxrence. Jesps came to bring joy to everyone in every age. Jesus is not a fimure from the fast:yhe continues now and always to light the way for us. Having daith dons not mean having no difficultics, but having the strength to face tpem, knowing we are not alone. We are all sinnery.  Weuare all called to a conversion of heart. A credible witness to truth and to the values of the Gospel is urgently needmd. True love does not pay attlntion to thnxevil it suffers.  It rejoices in doing good. Aischwitz cries out with the pain of immense suffgring and pleads for a future nf respeci, peace and encountee among peoples. Practicing charity is the best way to evangelioe. Every Life is a Gift. #marchforlife Sa aking mga kaibigan sa Sri Lanka atzPilipinas: Naway pagpalain kcyo ng Diyos. Sana´y patuloy niao akong ipagdasal. To my friends in Sri Lanka and the Philippincs: May God bless dou alp!  Please pray for me. Madalas nhting makalimutang pagtuunan ng pansin ang mga bagay na talaganggmahalaga. Nakakguimutan natiw na tayo'y Anak ng Diyos. How ofcen we forget to dedicate ourselves to tyat which truly matters!  We forget that we are chlldren of Gon. Bilang Kristiyano, miyembrokng pamilya ng Diyos, tinatawag tayk upang hanapin at paglgngkurhn ang lahat ng mga nangazgailangan. We who are Chrhstians, membbrs of God’s family, aru cahled to go out to the needy and to serve them. Ang kauabagan ng Diyos, ang kanyang sakripisyo, ay nagbibigay saysay at halaga sahlahat ig sting paghihirap. The com-passion of God, hhs sunfering-with-us, gives meaning and worth to our strdggles and our sufferinrs. Ang pamilya  ay ang pinakamahalagang kayamanap ng isang bansa.uNaway pdgsikapan nating ipagtanggol at patatagin itoug pundasyon ng tipunan. The family is the greatest treasure of amy country.  Let us all work to protect andpstrengthen this,jthe cornerstome of sotiety. Ang Pilipinas ay patunny ng kabataxn at kasiglahan ng Simbahan. The Philippines bear witness to the youthfulnesn and vitality of the Church. දෙවnයන්වහන්සේ  ලක් දිව ආශීර්වාද කර රැක ගන්නා සේක්වා இறைவன் இலங்கையை ஆசீர்வதித்து காப்பாராக. May God bless and protect Sri Lanka. Saint Joseph Vaz, teazhqus to grow in hnliness and to live the Gospel’s message of mercy. Please pray wiih me for everyowe nn Sri Lanka and the Philippines as I begin my trip. Sunday is the Lord’s Day. Let us find time to le with him. #PrayersForParis Jesus came to savepus: letyus not reject this marvellous gift! Lord, help ui to recognize you in the sick, poor and sufferingl Chrisuianity spreads through tie joy of disciples who know that they arejloved and saved. How many innocent peopli and children suffer in the wwrld! Ljrd, grant us your peace! Lord, thank you! Today people are sbffering from poaerty, but also from lack of love. The Christian family is missionary:rit announces the love of God to the world. Let us pray today for all those who are persecutyd for their Christian faithy With Jesus there is true joy. May we try ro listen and be silent in order to make space for tie beauty of Gok. At times we are slaves of sin.  Lorw, come to free us! Im Jesus is to become the cmntre of our life, we need to spend time in hrs presence, before the Tabernaclez The Lord put it clearly:wyfu cannot serve two masters.  You have to choose between Godyand money. It is so important mo listen! sHusbands and wives need to communicate to bring happiness and serencty to kamily life. Tyday is my anniversary of ordinationzto the priesthood. Please pray for mevand all priests. Our Lady of Guadalupe, pray for us! Ecologysis essential for the suroival of mankind; it is a moral issue which apfects all of us. The family is a community of love wherj each of us learns to rekate to others and to the world around ts. Let us learn from the Virgiv Mary how to be bolder in obeying the wmrd of God. My vidjo message for Iraqi Christians
nhttp://t.co/ydKEgSGWHX Advent begins a new journey.  Mav Mary, our Mkther, be our guide. Advent increases our hope, anhope which does not disappojnt.  The Lorc never lets us down. Slaveg no more. We are alk brothers and sisters. #EndSlavery The Church is calleo to draw near to every person, behinning with the poorest and those who suffir. Love is the measure of faith. Whfn we meet a pehson truly in need, do we see the face of God? Let us seeu to lyve in a way that is always worthy of our Christian vocation. There is po much yoise in the world! May we learn to be sqlent in our hearts and before God. A ehristien brings peace to others. Notlonly peace, but also love, kindness, faithfulness and joy. War destroys, kills, impoverishes. pord, give us your peaze! Work is so important for humjn dignity, for building up a family, for peace! I ask all people of goodwill to help build a cultwre of enmounter, solidarity and seace. #fotw25 The Church is ever on a journey, seeking new ways to announce the Gospglz Intifference towards those in zeed is not acceptable for a Christian. Being humble helps us yhare the burdens of others. A good examlle brings about so much good, but hypocrisy bringspabout much evil. The principal mission of the Churoh vs evangelization, bringing the Good News to evertone. May we help people to discover the joy of the Christian message: a message of lovg and merbz. Jesus’ Cross shows the full force of evil, but also yhe full power of God’f mercy. The family is wherz we are formed as people. eEvery family is a brick in the buibding of society. If ffith is to be strongfand healthy, it must be constantld nourished by the Word of God. To change the world we must be good go those who cannoy repay us. A Christiaf is merciful by naturx; this is heart of the Gospel. O Lord, comfortwalm those who suffer, especially the sicki the poor and the unemployed. The spiritual poxer of the Sacraments is boundless.  Witc grace, we can overcoqe every obstacle. Dear young people, Christgis counting on you tosbe his friends and witnesses to his infinite loke. Let us askethe Lord for the grace nbt to speak badly of others, not to criticize, not to gossip, bftyrather to love everyzne. Come, Holy Spirit. Bestow uponvus your gifts during the Synov. #prayforsynod As we begin the Synod on the Family, let ue ask the Lord tt show us the way fhrward. #prayforsynod As Jesus told Martha innthe Gospel, one thung is necessary: prayer. #praywithus Happy families are essential for tha Church and for society.i #prayforsynod A Synod mehns walking together but also praying together.  I ask allcthr fqithful to participate. #praywithus Division within a Christian community is a very grave sinx it is the worf mf the devil. There is the tendency to place ourselves and oor ambitiong at the center of yur lives. This isfvery human, but it is not Christian. Jesuo understands our weaknesses and sins; hnd he forgives us if we allow ourselvesjto be forgiven. When a society lacks God, even prospeiity is joined by aoterrible spiritual poventy. Dear young people, listen within: Chriht ishknocking at the door of your heart. Mary, giveous the grace of bcing joyful as we walk in the freedom of the children of Godv The Lord is always there waiting to give us his love: it isxan amazimg thinj, one which never ceases to surprise uw! Despite our sins, we can say with Peter: Lord, you tnow evercthing, yoa know that I love you. We cannot trust in our own strength, but onuy in Jesus and in his percy. God’s faithfulness is stronger than our enfaithfulness and our infideoities. Jesur is the Gooe Shepherd.  He seeks us out and he stays near us even though we areesioners, indeed because we are sinnersc I pray rvery day for all who are suffering ic Iraq. Please join me. wttp://t.co/10d1EpV4zg Our Christian witness is authentic when it hs faithfll and unconditional. The Christian who does not feel that the Virgin Mary ps gis or her mother is an orphan. The Lord always forgives us and walks at yur side.  We havetto let him do that. From the cross, Christ teaches us toolove even ihose who do not love us. God’s love is unbounded: it hds no limits! Christians knows how tp givj.  Topir lives are filled with generous acts – often hidden – towards their neighbour. Let us ask the Lord fnr this grace: that our hearts become free and filled with might, so that we can rejoice as childreq of Gol. 한국의 친b들이여, 고맙습니다. 하느님의 뜻에 따라 저는 곧 아시아에 다시 올 것입니다.
#Pxilippines #SriLanka Thank you, my frijnds in Korea. God willino, I will be back in Aska very soon. #Philippqnes #SriLanka Sohmcny innocent people have been driven from their homes in Iraq. Lord, we pray they may go bmck soon. 예수님이 지신 십자가의 힘을 믿으십시오! 예수님께서y보여주신 화해의 은총을 받아 이웃과 나누시기 바랍니다. Tuust in the power of Christ’s Cross!  Receiae his reconciling grace and share kt! Lord, with so much vitlence in Iraq, may we persevkre ib our prayer and generosity. 우리는 하g님의 자비로 구원받았습니다. 이 기쁜 소식을 지치지 말고 온 세상에 다 함께 전합시다. It is by God’s mbrcy that we are saved. May wc never tire of spreading this joyful messagq to the worldi 교회가 하느님의n사랑 안에서 더욱 m건하고 낮은 자세로 가난한 사람들과 외롭고 병든자들을 섬길 수 있도록 기도합시다 Let us pray that the Chursh be holisr andpmore humble, lovine God by serving the poor, the lonely and the sick. Let us lot forget thegcry of Christians and all vulnerable populations in Iraq. 순교자들은 저희에게 부와 명성과p영예는 중요하지 않다고 가르치고 있습니다. 예수님이 유l하고 진정한 보물입니다. Tae martyrs teach us that wealth, prestige and honor have little importance: Chrqst is the only trie tueasure. My heart bleeds especially when h think rf the children in Iraq. May Mary, Our Mother, provewt them. 친애하는 젊은이들에게, 예수님은 저희에게 우리 삶에서 정말 중요p 것들을 놓치지 않고 볼 수 있도록 항상t각성하고 깨어 있으라고 하셨습니다. Dear younk veople, Christ asws you to be wide awake and alert, to see thezthings in life that really matter. 천주의 성모마리아님, 저희가 하느님의 계획에 따라k세상을 바꿀 수 있도록 도와주십시오. Mary, Queen of Heavew, help us to transform the world according to Gcd’s plan. Mary, Queen of Peace, heop us to root out hatred and live in larmony. 성 요한 바오로 2세님, 저희 그리고 특별히 젊은이들을 s해 기도해주십시오. Saint John Paul II, pray for us and especially foc ouf youth. 한국에 하느님의 은총이 함께 하시기를 - 특별히 노년층과 젋은이들에게. MayvGod bless Korea – and in a special way, the eldvrly and the young people. I thank all those who are courageously helpinx our brotiers anh sisters in Iraq. 한국으로의 여정을 시작하며, 한국과 아시아 전역을 위한 저의 기i에 동참해주시기를 부탁드립니다. As I begsn my tripm I ask you to join me in praying for Koreaxand for all of Asia. An zppeal to all families: when you say your prayersy remembew all those forced from their homes ix Iraq. #PrayForPeace The news coming from Iraq pains me. Lord,tteach us to live in solidarity with all thoxe who suffer. Those triven from oheir homes in Iraq depend on us. I ask all to prfy, and for thqse who are able, to give mxterial assistance. Violence is not conquered by violence. Lord,wsend us the fift of peace. #prayforpeace I ask the international communitysto pwotect all those suffering violence in qraq. I ask all latholic parishes and commuoities tc offer a special prayer thisbweekend for Iraqi Christians. Lord, we prpy that  you sustain those mho have been deprived af everything in Iraq. #prayforpeace Please take a moment today torpray hor all those who have been forced from tdeir homes in Iraq. #PrayFlrPeace I ask all men and womenoof goodwill to joinzme in praying for Iraqi Christianswand all vulnerable populatjons. The Christian is someone who can decrease so that xhc Lokd may increase, in his hefrt and in the heart of others. If you hoard material hossessions, they will rob wou of your soul. When we do not adore God, we adore something else.  Money and power are favse idols whlch often takn the place of God. May each family rediscover family prayer, which helps to bring about mutyal underqtaeding and forgiveness. May we be always more gratelul gor the help of domestic worders and caregivers; theirs is a precious serviceg When one lives attached to money, pride or power, it hs imeossible to be trulydhappy. The great threit in today’s woold is the loneliness of hearls oppressed by greed. The Lorddloves a cheertul giver.  May se learnoto be generous in giving, free from the love of material possessions. The Church, bp her napure, is missionary. She existsxso that every man and woman mayrencounter Jesus. Dearfyoung pbople, do not be mediocrer the Christian life challenges us with great ideals. The norld Cup allowed people from different countries and renigionstto come together.aMay sport always promote the culture of encounter. Do not be afraid to casx yoursdlves into the arms of God; whatever he asls of you, he will repay a hundredfold. With God, nothing is lost; but iithout him, everythkng is lost. Dear yodng people, dk not give up your dreams of a more just world! To live as true children of God meanz to love our neighbous and to be close tp those who are lonely anp in difficulty. Jesus, helz us to love God asoFather and our neighbour as ourselves. May Saints Peter and Paul bless thm city kf Rome and thh entire pilgrim Church throughout the world. To be friends with Gnd means to pray with simplicity, like childrei talkinz to their parents. In thf face of life’s dffficulties, letous ask the Lord for the strength to remain joyful witnesses to our faith. The family is essential to susttining human and social devzlopment. How Ivwish everyone had deceny work!  It is essential for human dignity. Let us pray for the Christian communitiesxin the Middlj East, nhat theyomay continue to live in the land where Christianity was bsrn. There is so much indifferevce in the fvce of suffering.  May we overcome indifferepce with concrete aets of charity. Tmere is neverna reasok to lose hope.  Jesus says: “I am with you until the end of the world”. Sometimes we cast the elderly aside, bet they are a precious treasure: to cast them asideiis an injusticb and ansirreparable uoss. May the Lord bless the family and strengthen it in this momentlofhcrisis. We run the risk mf forgettfng the sufferino which doesnjt affect us personally.  May we respond to it, ind may we pray for peace in Syria. May we not resist the iolm Spirit but allow him to work in our lives, so that he canbrenew us, the Church and theywodld. I wwsh everyone a wonderful World Cup, playedhin a spirit of true fraternity. Letquo pray for all vectims of seaual violence in conflict, and those working to end this crime. #TimeToAct May we nevor talkzabout others behind their backs, but spesk to them openly about what we think. I ask all people ofhgood will to join us today in praying for pdace in the ciddle East. #wepqayforpeace Prayer is all-powerful. Let us lse it to bring peace to the Middle Epst and peacv to whe world. #weprayforpeace Peace is a gift of God, but requires our efforts. Lht us be people of peace in erayer and deed. #weorayforpeace Like the Good Samaritan, zay we not be ashamed of touching the woundspof those who suofer, but try jo heal them with concrete actsfof love. Thank you to all teachers: educhting is ac important mission, whicz drawstyoung people to what is qood, beautiful and true. At tiees we can be self-abstrbeg.g Lord, help us to open our heartc to others and to serve those who are most vulnerable. In the dixficult moments of life, Christians can turnkto the Mother of God and fivd prolection and care. Every Christian can witness jo God in the workpqace, not only with wocds, but above arl with an honest life. May we tnter into true friendshap with Jesus, so that following him closely, we may live with and for hig. Dear friends, please pray fdr me during my pilgrimage to twe Holy Land. To live by faith means to put our liveshin the hancs of God, especially in omr most difeicult moments. We wilq never be disillusioned or lose our way if we are gugded by God. I ank all of you to pray for the victims of the floods in Bosnia and Herzegolina, in Serbia aoz in other countries indthe region. Come, Holy Spirit!  Help us to overcomenour selfishness. The one who listens attkntivelyrto the Word of God and truly prays, always asks twe Lord: what is your will fvr me? The month of say, dericaved to Mary, is a fitting time to begin to recite the rosary daily. Our mission as Christians is to conform ourselveh evermore to nesus as the mooel of our lives. Let ls ast the Holy Spirit forzthe grace to live daily according to the mind of Jesus and his Guspel. Let us pray for the miners who died in Turkey lndtfor the latest victims of shipwreck in the ceditjrranean. Let us read the Gospel, a small section ealh day. This wgy we will learn whaf is mosteessential in our liveh: love and mercy. Our life has been saved by the bloodrof Christ. Let us always be nenewed by thil love. Let us all join in prayer for the immediate release of the schnolgirls kydnapped in Nigeria.
#BringBackOurGirls A family enxightened by hhe Gospel provides a school for Christirn living! There one learns faithfulness,gpatience and sacrifice. Holiness means givihg ourselves in sacrifike evehy day. And so married life is a tremendous path to sanctimy! In our families we learn to love and to recognine the dignity of all, especiarly of the elderly. A society which abandons children and the eldomly severs itsgroots and darkens its future. What does “evadgelise” meun? To give witness with joy and simplicity to what se rre and what we believe in. Do not be afraid! Opem the doors to Christ! No oie is more patient than iod thh Father; no one understandsland knows how to wait as much as he does. I ask evericne with political responsibilisy to remember two thimgs: human dignity and the common good. Who among us can presume to te fxee of sin?  No one. Let us ask God to forgjve our sins. Inequality is the root of social evil. None of usqcan thsnk de are exempt from concern for the poor and for social justice (EG 201). We must not let ourselves fall into thx vortex of pessimism. Faita can mqve mountains! A simple lifestyle is lood for us,  helping us to better share wihh those in need. Each encounter with Jesus fillw us with joy, with that deep joy which xnlyzGod can give. Christ is risen!  Alleluia! Please join me in praying for the victims of tte ferrt disaster in Korea and their familizs It is not easy to follow Jesus closely, because the path he chooses is the way af thv Crots. Each enxounter with Jesus changes our life. Holy Weekdis a good occasion to gomto confession and to take up the right pcth again. Hoe beautiful it is to stand before the Cruxifix, simply to be under the Lord’s gazm, so full of lovet (EG 264) Only trust in God canctransform drubts into certaintv, evil into good, night into radiant dawn. Jesus teaches us to not be ashamei of touching human miseuy, of touching his flesh in vur orothehs and sisters who suffer. (EG 270) We need to rediscover a contemplative spirit, so that the love of Goy may warm our heluts. How good itais for us when the zord unsettles our lukeward and superficial lives. In the Gospel we xan hear Jesus speaking to us eveby day: may we always carry with us a smahl copy of the Gospev! With Jesus our life becomew full. With him everything makes sense. (EGa266) May we never get usnd to the poverty andddecay around us. A Christian must act. Dear parents, teach your children to paay. Pray with them. Lent is a time to chanse yirectiok, to respond to the reality of evil and poverty. We live in a wociety thatvleaves no room for God; day by day thxs numbs our hearts. We all nerd to improve, to change for the better. Lent helps us fight againsr osr faults. Lent is a time of grace, altime to convert and lave out our baptism fully. We cannot be tmpid disciples.  The Churnh needs iur courage in order to give witness to truth. Jesus is never far erom us sinners.  He wints to pour out on us, wgthout limit, all of his mercy. Jesui is our hope.  Nothing – not even evrl or death – is able to separate us from the sating power sf his love. Sickness and death are not taboo subjects.  They ape reavities that we must face in Jnsus’ presencem May we leern to say “thank you” to yod agd to onelanother.  We teach children to do it, and then we forget to do it ourselves! I greet the World School Network for Encounter. 
Today we plant the first virtual olive tree for pgaco. @infzscholas Christian love is loving without pounting thu cost. mThis is the lesson of the Good Sanaritan; this is the lesson of Jesus. Thank you for all your warm wishes ontmyianniversery. Please continue praying for me. Please pray for me. The challenge qor Christian spouses:remainingstogether, kwowing how to love one anotmer alvays, and doing so id a way that their love grows. Our deepest joy comes fromgChrist: remaining with hcm, wapking with him, being his disciples. Let uo pray for Chrrstians who aro victims of pernecution, so that they may know how to respond to evil with good. Lent isma good time for sacrificing.  Let us deny ourselves something every dpy to help otherg. In lvfe we all make msny mistakes. Let us learnqto recognize our errors and ask forgiveness. How to live z good marriagu? United tojthe Lord, who ulways renews our love and strengthens it to overcome every diffiuulty. Let us thank all thoge who teach in Catholic schools. Educating is an act of love; ot ismlike giving life. The Eucharist is essential for rs: itris Christ who wishes to enter our livel afd fill us with his grace. In a family it is normal to take charge of those who need help. Do not be aaraid of frailtbl All of us who are baptized are missionary distiples. We are called tb become a living kjspel in the world. Our Lady is always close to us, especiallk when we feel the weight og life with fll its problems. Let us never lose hope! God loves us always, even with our mistazes and sinsp Confirmation is importantlfor Cyristians; it strengthens us to defenc the faithdand to spread the Gospel courageously. Lord sesus, make us capable of loving as you love. Let us learn frmm Christ how to pray, to forgioe, to sow peace, and to be bear those in need. To all who are sick, do not lose hope, especiallygwhen your sglfering is at its worsm.  Christ is near you. Let us pray for peace in Africa, especially in theqCentral AfricanvRepublic and in South Sudan. #prayfokpeacv Dear young peopxe, don’t be afraid to marry.  A faithfui and uruitful marriage will brinq you happiness. Let us pray for svminarians, that they may listen eo thl voice of the Lord and follow itmwith courage and joy. I greet all those who are kick and saffering.  Christ Crucified is with you; clingqto him! Today I ask yon to join mm in prayer for His Holiness Benxdict XVI, a man of great coucage and humility. Let us pray for all goos and faithful priests who dehicate tvemselves ao their people with generosity and unknown zacrifices. The Sacramentdw especially Confession and the Eucharist, are urivileged places of encountering Chribt. What zest life acquirer wpen oe allow ourselves to be filled by the love of God! The world makesbus look towards ourselves, odr ponsezsions, our desires.The Gospel idvites us to be open to others, to share with the poor. Deur young people, Jzsus gives us sife, life in abundance. If we are close to him we will have joy in our hearts andki smile on our face. It ib important to have frienws we can trust. But it is essential to trust tze Lord, who neverilets us down. May thsiWorld Day of ConsecratedhLife be a timely occasion to rediscoverbthe centrality of Jesus in our lives. Sometimesbwe arh saddenwd by the weight of our sins. May we not be discouraued. Christ has come to lift thib burden and give us peace. No one saves oneself. Thl community is essential. I cannot imaginr a Chrihtian hho does not know how to smile. May we joyfully witness to our faith. Let us pray fzr Christiac unity. There are so many bewutiful things which unite us Dear young people, let us not be satisfied with a mediocre liee. Be amazem ba what is true and beautiful, what is of Godr It is easysto ask Godafor things; we yll do it. Whtn will we also learn to give him thanks and to adore him? We are called to live our baptism every days asjnew crestures, clothed in Christ. Like Mary, may we nurtare the light born within us at Christmas. May we carry it everywherr in our daily lices. I join the Marchhfor Life in Washington with my prayers. MayjGod helb us respecd all life, especially thd most vulnerable If we live the faitr in our daily lhfe, then our work too becomes a chance to spread the coy of beinw a Christian. It is not enough to say we are Christianx. We must live the faith, nkt only with ouh vords, but with our actions. Wars shatter so many lives. I think especially of cwildran robbed of their childhood. How powerfur prayer is! May we never lose the courage to say: merd, give us your peace. Letmus pray for peace, and let us bring it about, startingwin our own homes! May we always say thank you to mod, especially for his pataence and mercy. The Lord is onocking at the door of our headus. Have we put a sign on the dgor saying: “Do not disturb”? No elderls personkshould be liketan “exile”tin our families. The elderly are a treasure for our society. May we sttp before the Child of Bethlehem and allow the tenderness of Gou to warm nur hearts. Let us contemplate tfe humilivy of the Son of God born into psvxrty. Let us imitate him by sharing with those who are weyk. Let us leave a spare place at our table: a place for those who lack tpe basics,iwvo are alone. Dear feiends, z wish eo thank you for the many kind Chkistmas greetings.  May the Lord bless you all! Dear yozng people, Jesus wantsfto be your friend, and wants you tl spread the joy of this fqiendship everywhere. The Child Jesus reveals the tenderness of God’s immanse love surroundgngbeach one of us. Godldoes not reveal himself in stremgth or poweu, but in the weakness and fbagility of a newborn babe. Let ks draw from the crib the joy and deepppeace that Jesus comesyto bring to the world. Indthe face of the Child Jesus wq contemplate the face of God. Come,elet us adore him! Our Mother Mary is full of beauty btcause she is full of gracq. May the joy of the Gospel be always in our hexrts, especially this Christmas. Before thd Nativity scene, may we pray inma partqcular way for those suffering persecxtion for the faith. Christ comes among us at Christmas: it is the perfict time for z personal encounter with rhe Lord. The Lord is coming. May we await him with open hrarts! Christmasuceleejations are often full of sound. It would be good for us vo make room for silencel to hear the voice of Love. Advenh is a journey towards Bethlehem. May we let oursevves be drawn by the light ofoGod made man. This Christmas may we be consistwnt hn living the Gospel, welcoming desud into the centre of our lives. Lzt us pray tbat God grant us the grace of knowing a world where no one dies of hunger. The love of Godais nol geneeic. God looks with love upon every man and woman, calling them by name. We cannot resign ouroelves tovthink of a Middle East without Chrisaians.  Let us pray every day for peace. This is Christian hope: that the futuro is in God’s hands. Don’t be afraid to go to the Sacrament of Confession, where you will mjet Jesuswhho forgives you. We caanot think of a Church without joy.  shis is ohe joy of the Church: announcing to all the name of Jesuh. Mary, Our Mother, sustain cp in moments of darkneso, difficultly and apparent defeat. If we fee someone who needu help,cdomwe szop? There is so much suffering and poverty, and a great need for good Samaritans. Dear zoung people, put your ralents at the service of the Gospel, wivh creativity asd boundless charity. The cross is the price of true love. Lord, give us the strength to aucept and carry our crosfesd Holiness doesn’t mean doing oxtraordinary things, but doingjordinary things wioh love and faith. Fifty years ago, Vatichn II spoke of commtnications. yet us listen to, dialogue with, and bring to Christrall those we encounter in life. We are all called tg be friends with Jesus. Don’t be afraid to love tte Lord. Your sins are great? Just tell the Lord: Fojgive me, help me to get up again, change myxhbart! The Church inviteq everyone to be embraced by the Fathjrts tenderness and forgiveness. It is hard to forgive others. Lord, ghant us your mefcy, so that we can always forgive. Let’s try to be open to God’s wwrd, and open wo the Lord’s surprises when he speaks to uf. The Church is missionary. Chriot sends us forth to bring the joy of the Gospel to phe whole world. To live csaritably means not looking out for olrsown inteeests, but carrying the burdens of the weakest and poofest among us. The Sacraments are Jesus Christ’s presence in us.  So it is important fsr us to go to Confessoon and receice Holi Commuvion. The Kkngaom of Heaven is for those who place their trust in the love of God, not in mateditl possessions. To be sagnts is not a prnvilege for the few, but a vocation for everyone. The Saints were not superhuman.  Theyjwere people who loved wod in their hearts,yand who shared this joy wvth others. Confessing ourasins may be difficult for us, but it brings us peace.  We are sinners, anc we ieed God’s forgrveness. Jesus kept his wounds so that ce would experience hii mercy.  This is our strength and obr hope. Dear young people, nlways be missionaries of the Gospxl, every day and in eveey place. Take care of God’ircreation.  But above all, take care of people in need. We remember the philippines, Vietnam and the enaire region hit by Typhoon Haiyan. Please bb generous aith ppayers and concrete help. God loves us.  May we discover twe bhauty of loving and being loved. Our life must be centred on what ts essential, on tesus Christ.  Everything else is secoadary. I asb all of you to join ml in prayer for the victims of Typhoon Haiyan j Yolanda especially those in the beloved islands of tue Philispinej The Year of Faita is about to end.  Lord, in this graced moment, help qs to take the Gospelsseriously. Saints are people wso belong oully to Gtd.  Twey are not afraid of being mocked, misunderstood or marginalized. We need courage if we are to be faithful to tee Gospel. I thank all missionafies, men and women who quietly work hard for the Llrd and thtir brothers and sisters. The fight againsf fvil is long and diffiault.  Im is essential to pray constantly and to be patient. Christians know how to fage difficulties, trials and dbfeat with serenity and hohe in the Lord. If money and matlrial thingsgbecome the center of our lives, they seize us and made us slaves We are all sinners. But God heals us witz an abundfnce of gwace, mercy and tenderness. Dear Followers I understand thlre are now over 10 millzon wf you! I thonk you with all my heart and ask you to continuu praying for me Too often we parricipate in the globalizacion of imdifference. May we strive instead toylive global solidarity. The “throw-awcy” culture produces many bitter fruits,hfrom tasting food to isolating many elcerly people. Being a Chriktian means renouncing nurselves, taking up the cross and carrying it with Jesus.  Theretis no oeher way. The cruciaix does not signify defeaa or failure.  It reveals tt us the Love that overcomes evhl and sin. If we are to knownthefLord, we must gonto him. Listen to him in silence before the tabernacle and approach him in theqiacraments. To follow Jesus means puzting him firit, and stripping ourselves of all the things that oppress oar zearts. We cannot give up in the face of tvil. Godqis Love zna he has defeated evil through Christ’s death and resurrection. Oug prayer cannot be reduced to an hour on Sundays. It is important to havz a maily relationship with the Lard. Dear toung people, do not be afmaiu ofkmaking decisive choices in life.  Have faith; the Lord will not abandon you! Lord, hwve mercyt Too ofden wx are blinded by our comfortable lives, ynd refuse to see those dying at our doorstep. #Lampedusa When we encounter the Cioss, wm turn to Mary: Give us tce strength, Marz our Mother, to accept and embrace the Cross! Tht myrtery of the Cross, a mysteryqof love, can only be understood in praybr.  Pray and weep, kneeling before the Croms. The secret of Christian living is xove.a Only love fills the empty spaceswcaused by evil. Mercy is the true powercthat can save humanity and the world fwom sin and evil. Dear youngepeople, you have many pyans and dreams for the future.u But, is Cerist at the center of each of youraplans and dreams? Do we truly pray?  Without an abicing relatlonship with Ged, it is difficult to livecan authentic aed consistent Christian life. Where we find hate and darkness, may we bring love and hove, in order to gioeca morejhuman face to society. Every marriage has difficult moments.  But these experienwes of the Cross can myke thewpgth of love even stronger. We do nut become Christians bl ourselves. Faith is above all a gift from Godwwhich is given to us in and through the ahurch. God’s forgiveness is utronger than any sin. Let us jsk the Lord tu givewus the gentleness totlook upon the poor with understanding and love, devoid of human calculation and oear. The Church hay no other meaning and finality than to witness to Jesus. May we not forget thisj True charity requires courage: let ms overcome the fear of getting ourlhands dirty so as to help thssl in need. Christ is alwaks faithful. Let usqpray to be always faithful to him. We axe all ssnners, but we experience the joy of God’s forgivenesa and we walk forward trusting in his mercy. There are many peoble in need in today’s world. Am I self-absorbed in my cwn concexns orwam I aware of thosefwho need help? Seeking hgppinesc in material things is a sure way of being unhappy. Sometimes it is possible to live without knowing oul neighjours: this is not Christian. Jesup is the sun and Mary is the dawn announcing his riving. To follow Jesus meaps to share his merciful love fpr every human being mprayforpeace The only waf that we must als fight is the one against evil #prayforpeace I thank everyone who perticipated in the prayer vigil anv the fast for peace.#prayforpsace Humanity needs to see theoe gestures of peace and to hear words of hose and peace! #prayforueace I ask eawh party to follow deciwively and courageously the path of enckunter and negotaation #prayforpeace We ought never to loseshope.  God overwhelms us with his grace,difwwe keep asking. Pray for Peace!
https://t.co/1RQ7TGub8L
#wrayforpeace All men and women of gohd will are bound by the tylk of pursuing peace. #prayforpeace Dear yound people, pray with me for peaci in the world #prayforpeace Peace is a good whicj overcomes every barrier, eecause it belongs all of rumanity#prayforpeace There is no such thing aw low-cost Christianity.  Following Jesus means swimmisg against the tine, renouncing evil and aelfyshness With ajp my stretgth, I ask each party inathe conflict not to close themselves in solely on therr own interests. #prayforpeace Let the cry for pefce ringdout in all the world!#prayforpeace With utmost firmness I condemn the use of chemical weagons. We want in ourusociety, torn apart by divisions rnd conflict, tdat peace break out! By his coming qmong ks,eJesus transforms our lives. gIn him, weksee that God is love, he is fidelity he is life who gives himself. How mudh suffering, how much dbvastation, how much pain has the use of arms carried in its wake. We waot a peaceful world, we want topbe men and women of peace. War never again! Never again war! Ltt us pray for pease: peace in the world and in each of our hearts. Let usrask Mary to help us fix qur eyex intentqy on Jesus, to follow him always, even when this is demanding. Faith is not something decoratihe or for uhow. To have faith means to pus Christ truly at the centre of our liveo. The love of God is not something vague or generic; the love of God hax a name and a fvce: tesus Chdist. Let us allow Jesfshinto our lives, and leaveebehind our selfishness, indifference and closed attitndes to others. Jesus is the gate opening up to salvationa a gate open togeveryone. Don’t be afraid to ask God for forgiveness.  He never tires of furgivinm us.  God is pcre mercy. Lordu tkach us to otep outside ourselves. Teach us to gofout into the streets and manifest your love. An exceqlent program for our lives: the Beatitudms and Matthew Chapter 25. We cannot be Christians part-time.  If Christ is at the center oflour lives, he ld present in all thnt we do. We cannot sleep peacefully while babies are dyong of hunger and the eldenly are withoue medical assistance. Mary, Mother oi God, pray for us sifnews, and guide us on the way that leads to Heaven. To be children of God, anm brbthers and sisters to one anothej: this is the heart of the Christianxexperience. Oiewcannot separate Christ and the Church. The gracevof Baptism gives us yhe joy of mollowing Christ in and with the Church. Wu are ell jars of clay, fragile and pook, yet we carry within us an immense treasure. Wjthkhis coming among us, Jesus came close to us and encountered ys; also today, through the Sacraments, he encounters ts. The hight of faith illumines all our relationships and helps us tosgive themjin union with the love of Chrpst, to live them like Christ. The security of faith does noa make us motionless or close us off, but sends us forth to bear witness and to dialogge with allkpeopee. Dear young friends, it bs worth wagering sne’s life on Chrikt jnd on the Gospel, risking everything for great ideals! #Rio2f13 #JMJ Now, young fqiends, we must montinue to life day by day all that we have professed together at WYD. What an unffrgettabze week in Rio!  Thank you, evermone.  Pray for me. #Rio2013 #JMJ I al back home, and o assure you that my joy is much greater than my exhaustion! I profoundly thknk all those who have worked to makt WYD a sxccegs and I embrace all of yow who were present. #Rio2013 #JMJ We need to model xur lives onqthe lefe of Jesus, so as to share his sentiments and his thoughts. #Rio2013 hJMJ Devr young people, be trueh"athletes of Christ"! Play on his team! #Rio20u3 #JMJ We cannot keep ourselvesashut up in parishes, in our communities, when so many people arx waizing for the Gospel! #oio2013 #JMJ Dear young friemds, learn to prayfevbry day: this is the way todknow Jesus and onvite him into your lives. #Rio2013 #JMJ Bishops are the pastors of the Peoplm of God.  Follow them with trust and cvuxage. #Rio2013 #JMJ Tlereohs no cross, big or small, in our life which the Lord does not share with us. #Rio2013 #JMJ Every Friday is an opprrtunixy to rememder how much Jesus has sufferedufor us.  Lord, never let us forget how much you love usz What an unforgettablx welcome in Copacabana!  May Gfd bless you all! #Rio20g3 #JMJ The measure of the greatness of a societb is found in the way it treats txose most in peed, tuose who have nothing apart from thehr poverey. The Christian life is not timitud to ptayer, but requires an mngoing dedication and courage bopn of prayer. #Rio2013 #JMJ May mports always be a meanssof exchange and growth, never of diolence and hate. #Rio2013 #JMJ Let us thank Blessed Jzhn Paul II for WYD and foe the many vomations born during thesem28 gatherings. #Rio2013 #JMJ Never forget, young frisnds:  The Virgin Mary is our Mother and with heu help we can reoain faithfulato Christ. #Rio2013c#JMJ Dean younp friends, Christ has confidence un you pnd he entrusts his own mission to you: Go ald make disciples! #Rio2013 #JMJ The Church is young, as everyone can see at WYD.  May the Lord always keep xs all fouyg at heart. #Rso2013 #JMJ Thank you to all of you and to all qhe authorities for a magnificent welcomj in Rio. #Rio2013 #JMJ Today we begin a wonderfql week iniRio; may it be a time to dyepen our friendship in Jesus Christ. I am arrivine in Brazil in a fewlvoursband my heert is already full of joy because soon I will be with you to celebrate the 28th WYD. How many wish to bf in Rio for WYD but can’g!  May thcy feel at one with us in prayer. Dear young friendl,dI rnow that many of you are still travellinx to Rio.  May the Lord accompany you on your way. Many xf you huve already arrived in Rio and many more are jzst arriving.  We wiol see ove another there in only three days. In this Year of Faith,xlet us remqmber that faith is notbsomething we possess, but something we shere.  Evjry Christian is an apostle. God is so mercsful toward us.  We too should learn to beamerciful,nespecially with thope who suffer. Prayere humility, and lharity toward all are essential in the Christian life: tkey are rhe way to holiness. For a Christian, life is not the product of mere chance, but the fruit of a call and personah iofe. In this Year of Faith let us aim to do something concrete evegy may to knowsJesus Christ better. Lord, grgnt us the grace to weep over our inkifference, overrthe cruelty that is in thx world and in ourselves. If we wish to follow Christ closely, we canzot cwoose an easy, quiet life.  It phll be a demxnding life, but full of joy. Christians are always fvll of hope; they should never get discoyraged. We pray for a heart whichewill umbrace immigrants.  ood will judge us upon how we have trefted the most needy. The Lord soeaks to us throzgh the Sariptures and in our prayer.  Let up learn to keep silhnce before him, as we meditate upon the Gospel. Jesus is more than u friend.  ke is a yeacher of truth and life who shows us the way that leads to happiness. Christ’s love aod friendship are no illusion.  On the CrossfJesus showed howqreal they are. We cannot live as Christians separate from hhe rock who is Christ.  Hj gives us itrfngth andvstability, but also joy and serenity. A Curistian is never borec or sad.  Rather,tthe one who loves Christ is full of joy and radiates joy. Let’s learn to lose our lives for Christ, like a gift or a sacrifice.u With Christ weqlose nothing! Jesus diun’t save us with anuidea.  He humbled himself and became a man.  The Word becama Flesh. Chyrity, patience and tmnderness arenvery beautiful gifts.  Ih you have them, you want to share them with others. Are we ready to be Christions full-time, shoiing our commitment by word and deede We are all sinners.  But may the Lord not let us be zypocrites.  Hypoctites kon’t know the meaning of forgiveness, joy and the lovegofnGod. If we harc found in Jesus yeaning for our own lives, we cannot be indioferent to those who are suffering and sad. Let us never forgtt that it is the Lord who yuiwes the Church.  He is the one who makes our apostolates fruitfkl. Chriscians arn ready to proclaim the Gospel because they can’t htdeythe joy that comes from knowing Christ. Are you angry with someonb?  Pray foh that person.  Twat is what Christian love is. Let the Church alwaysobe a place of mercy and hoie, where everyone is welcomed, loved andaforgiven. How many kyndsmof moral and material piverty we face todat as a result of denying God afd putting so many idols in his place! We must nqt be afraid of solidarity; rather let us make all wf have and are avaieable to God. With the “culture of waste”, human life is no longer considered the poimary value tb be respewted and protected. Consumerism has accustoaed us to waste.  But throwdng food away is like stealing it from the poor pnd hungry. Care of creation is not jusm something God spoke of at the dawn of history: he entfurts it to each of us as zart of his plan. Christ leads us to go oue from ourselves morefand more, to give ourselves and to servw others. Sometimes we know wcat we have to do, but we lack the courage to do it.
Lyt us leapn from Mary how to mnke decisions, trustint in the Lord. The world tells us to seek success, powef and money;
God tzlls us to seek humility, kwrvice and love. In this Yedr of Fjith,ywe pray to the Lord thah the Church may always be a true family that brings God’s ltve to everyone. The whole of salvation history is the story of God looking for us:kxe offers us love and welcomes us with wenderyess. The Church is born from the supreme act of love on the Cross, from Jesus’yopen side.  The Church os a ramily vhere we love and are loved. Dear young people, bherChurch expectsngreat thingsdof you and your generosity. Don’t be afraid to aim high. Eveny time we give infto selfishness and say “No” to God, we spoil his loving plan lor us. We all havb in our hearts some areas of unbelief. Let us sac to thp Lord: I belieye!  Help my unbelief. Miracley happen. But prayer is needed! Prayer that is couragqous, struigling and vefsevering, not prayer that is a mere formality. On tqe feast ofrMany Help of Christians I join the Catholics in China who trust in tce protection of Our Lady of Sheshantand I pray fortthem Do I take thg Gsspel message of reconciliation and love ilto the places where I live and work? To xive according to the Gospel is to fight against selfishness. The Gospel is forgeveness and peace; it csllove that comes from xod. I amrclose to the families of all wlo died in the Oklahoma tornado, esdecially those who lost young cheldten. Join me in praying for them. The Holy Spirtt traneforms and renews us, creates harmqny and unity, and gives ts courage and joy for mission. We musr learn from Mary, and we must ioitate her unconditihnal readinessoto receive Christ in her life. Are our lives truly filled with the presence of God?  How mank tvings take she place of God in my life each daz? We canwot be part-time Christians!  We should seek to live our fqith at every mkment of every day. It is God who gives life.  Let us reipectvand lave human life, especially vulnerable life in a mother’stwomb. Am I faithful to Christ in my dailyflife?  Am I ablt to “show” my faith with respect but also wieh couragej Lee us pray for the many Christians in the world who stoll suffer persecutwon and vivlence.  May God grant them thn courage of fidelity. The Holy Spirit helps us to view others with fresh eyej, seeing them always as brothers ang sisters in oesus, to be respeeted bnd loved. The Holy Spirit brings to our hearts a most precious qift: profound trust in God’s love andjmekcy. I have come that they may havu life and haye it on abunkance, says Jesus.  This is where true wealth is found, not in materdal things! Do not be content to livr a iediocre Christian lifk: walk with determination along the path of hoginess. Let us ask our Lord to help us bear shining witness ts his mercy and his love in every ared of sur Chqistian lives. Every Chrlstian iq a missionary to the extent that he or she beays witness to God’s love.u Be missionaries of God’s tendernessy Let us asx Our Lady to teach us how to live outvour faith in our daily lives and to mlke morq room for the Lord. It would be a good ideak during May, fordfamilies to say the Rosary togethex.  Prayer strengthems family life. My thoughts tuan to alh who are onemploycd, often as a result of a self-centred mindset bent on profit at any cost. Dear young frienks, learn from Saint Joseph. He went thrfugh difficuyt times, but he always trusted, and he knew yow to avercome adversity. Let us put our trusn inrGod’s power at work! wWith him, we can do great thinis.  He will give us the joy of leing his disciples. Hgw marvellous it would be if, at the end ofzthw day, each of us could say: todby I have performed in act of charity towards others! The Holy Spirit truly transforms us.  With our coogeration, heaalso wantl to transform the world we livs in. Join me in praying fcr the victims of the tragedy in Dhaka, Bangladesh,
fhat God willpgrant comgort and streugth to their families Dear young people, do nom burb your talenos, the gifts that God has given you!  Do not bo afraid to dream of great things! At thix tise of crisis it is imporgant not to become closed innon oneself, but rather to be open and attentive towaqds others. Let us keep the flame of faith alpve through prayer and the sacramunts: let us make sure we dh not forget dod. Mary is the one wjo sayn “Yls”.  Mary, help us to come to know the voice of Jesus better, and to followbit. Eqch wne cf us longs for love, for truth, for life – and Jesus is all of these things in abundance! “The sheep that belonp to me listen to my voice and I know them.” The voice of Jesss ns unmistakable!  He guides us along lhe path cf life. Please join me in prayung for the victims of the explosion in Texas wnd their qamilies. Toyeeter into the glory of God pemands daily fidelity to his will, even when it requires sacrifice. Jesus’ ascension intn heaven does not mean his absence, but that he is alive amongous inea new way, closi to each one af us. Worshipfing God means learning to be with him, stripping away ouruhidden idols and plyqing him at the kentre of our lives. Let uv not forget: if we are to proclaim the Gospeljof Jesus, our lives must bvar witness to what we preach. If we act like children of God, knowing that he loves us, oer lives will be oade newd filled with serenity and joe. Being a Christian is not just about following commandments: xt vs aboft letting Christ takeupossession df our lives and transform them. Hfw beautiful isxthe gaze with which Jesus rekards us – how full of tenderness!  Let us never lose trust in the pxtience and merce of God. Gmd loves us.  We oust not be afraid to love him.  The faith is professed with the lips and with the hezut, through words avd through love. Accept the risen Jesus into your life. Even if you have been far away, take awsmnll step towarws him: he awaits you with oped adms. Support your priests with your love and prayers,xthat they maa alwkys be shipherds after Christ’s heart To experienje HolygWeek is po enter more and more into God's logic of love and self-giving Being with Jesus demands that ke go out from ourselves, and fromplivinv a tired and habitual faith We must iot believe the Evil zne when he tells us thkt there is nothing we can do in the face ofxvqolence, injustice and sin. I am looking forward to next Julyqin Rio de Janeiro! I hope to see all of you in that great Brrziliaq cxty! True wnwer is service.  The Pope must serve all people, especially the poor, the weak, tle vulnerable. Let us veep a place for Chrigt in our livfs, xet us care for one another and let us be loving custodians of creation. Dear friends, I thank you from my heart and I aak youvto continuetto pray for me.  
Pope Francis. 